ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS, EXAMINATIONS, GRADING SYSTEM, RETENTION, GRADUATION AND HONORS:

b. If the student does not have written permission from the parents or
guardian/benefactor. Upon withdrawal, the subjects enrolled will be marked
“W” in the school records/student records.
3.5
DROPPING FROM THE CLASS. A student will be dropped (DR) automatically when
the number of unexcused absences exceed twenty percent (20%) of the prescribed
number of class periods for the given term.
3.6
TRANSFER CREDENTIALS. A student enrolled in the College is entitled to transfer to
another school, provided he/she has no outstanding school obligations with TMC for
Non-UNIFAST Scholars. Every student who desires to transfer to another school shall
file an application for transfer so as to be given the transfer credentials prepared by
the School Registrar and approved by the School Administrator or his authorized
representative, which will be acted upon within seven (7) working days from filing
for transfer under normal conditions, provided the applicant has been cleared of all
financial and property liabilities. In case of a student transferee from other school to
TMC and from TMC to another school, his/her complete records must be received by
the TMC School Registrar within the enrolled semester.
3.7
ISSUANCE OF SUBSEQUENT COPY OF DIPLOMA. Issuance of subsequent copy of the
Diploma requires an execution of Notarized Affidavit regarding the circumstances of
the loss of the original copy issued and payment of re-issuance fee.
3.8
ISSUANCE OF STUDENT’S ACADEMIC RECORDS, DIPLOMA, ETC TO PROXY. The
proxy must present a duly notarized written authority executed by the owner of the
academic records, diploma, etc., before they are released to the proxy. The
notarized written authority shall be kept on file in the student’s records. The
notarized written authority should identify the proxy address and relationship of the
person granting the authority and bear the signature of both.
3.9
ISSUANCE OF STUDY LOAD, GRADE SLIP, PROSPECTUS EVALUATION SHEET,
APPLICATION FOR GRADUATION AND CLEARANCE. As a rule, initial issuance of
study load, grade slip, application for graduation and clearance are free for
enrolment purposes only, except for application for graduation and re-issuance of
these documents shall cost the requesting student to pay minimal charges.
SECTION 4. CURRICULAR AND NON-CURRICULAR:
                      ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS:
4.1
SUBJECT LOAD. The normal subject load of students shall be in accordance with the
approved curriculum for each program or course of study. It is indicated in the
checklist of the course enrolled depending on the year level and term. No regular
student shall be allowed to overload. However, a graduating student maybe
permitted to overload in the discretion of the School Registrar, provided the
following are complied with:
a. The graduating student has an average grade of at least 2.5.
b. The overload is recommended by the Dean.
c. A maximum total number of units to be enrolled are up to 30 academic units
only.
4.2
PRE-REQUISITE SUBJECTS. As a general rule, a student shall not be permitted to take
any new subjects or advanced subjects until he/she has satisfactorily passed the
basic and pre-requisite subject/s.
4.3
CLASS ATTENDANCE. The maximum number of allowed absences from class shall be
twenty percent (20%) of the prescribed number of class periods for the given term.
Absences, however, due to sickness and other legitimate reasons will be excused,
provided a medical certificate issued by a Licensed Physicians or Designated School
Physician is presented to the Instructor concerned. Being excused, the student will
be given make-up lesson or assignment for the missed work. A student who incurs
unexcused absences of more than twenty percent (20%) of the prescribed number of
classes or laboratory periods during the school year or term should be given a failing
grade or given no credit for the course or subject.
SECTION 5. EXAMINATIONS:
Aside from quizzes and tests, four (4) major/official examinations are given every semester.
These are Preliminary Examination, Midterm Examination, Semi-Final Examination and Final
Examination while Midterm and Final Examinations are given during Summer Term. The
schedule of these examinations is issued by the School Registrar and posted in the bulletin
board and at the TMC System announcement menu.
The College, for purposes of uniformity, provides the examination booklets at minimum
cost. Instructors are given one week to correct the examination booklets after which these
booklets should be returned to the students.
Remote teaching and learning cover the entire spectrum of asynchronous or non-real time
communication between teachers and learners – from text-based (basic email, FB
messenger, Viber group, etc) to online discussion boards in different platforms (Google
Classroom) – and synchronous or real time communication teachers and learners (e.g.
lectures, webinars and teleconferences using platforms such as Zoom, Google Meet,
Facebook Live, etc).
THE FOLLOWING ARE REGULATIONS TO BE FOLLOWED BY STUDENTS IN TAKING:
EXAMINATIONS:
a. Pay the school obligations due for the period to the School Cashier. (Non-FHE
Students)
b. Secure Admission Slips from the designated offices one (1) week before the
scheduled examination and see to it that it is duly signed by the instructor in the
examination room. A payment is required for reissuance of Admission Slip.
c. Admission Slip and examination booklets are required for all students in taking
official examinations in all subjects including Field Study, Practice Teaching, Thesis
Writing, Practicum and On-The-Job Training regardless of year level.
d. Written assessments will be given to students taking up Field Study, Practicum,
Practice Teaching and On-The-Job Training in every official examination. However,
for Education the terminal requirements shall be the submission of FS / Practice
Teaching portfolio and action research. While the BSCRIM shall comply the case
study requirements.
e. Thesis Writing will undergo pre-oral and final defense and submit the completed
research manuscript signed by the panel committee.
f. Only ballpens, admission slips, and official examination booklets are allowed to be
brought inside the examination room by the examinees during examination period.
g. No electronic gadgets are allowed to be brought inside during examination.
h. Test questions shall be distributed only in the examination room.
i. All questionnaires during official major examinations must be in board-type manner
in multiple choices of at least 50 items per subject except for those subjects requiring
practical examinations. The students are obliged to reimburse the cost of
reproduction of questionnaires.
j. The examinee caught in the act of cheating in a particular examination shall be
punished by a score of zero (0) for that particular examination and shall not be
given any special examination.
k. Special examination shall be allowed only with a written request from the student
stating his/her valid reasons and duly approved by the Department Head.
l. All instructors are required to conduct their major examinations only in the TMC
designated classrooms within the prescribed examination period, except for those
subjects requiring practical examinations with the approval of the Deans /
Department Heads and the College President. Any instructor who violates the same
shall be dealt with disciplinary actions by the Board of Trustees.
SECTION 6. GRADING SYSTEM:
6.1
GRADING STANDARD.
Grades are computed based on classroom performance that includes:
CRITERIA:
HIGHEST RATINGS:
PRELIM:
MID-
TERM:
SEMI-
FINAL:
FINAL:
OVER-ALL:
RATING:
Attendance – 10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
Class Participation –10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
Quizzes – 15%
15%
15%
15%
15%
15%
Individual/Group
Activities – 10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
Term Project – 15%
15%
15%
15%
15%
15%
Major Written
Examinations – 40%
40%
40%
40%
40%
40%
OVER-ALL RATING:
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
In general, the College sets 50% in any test / examinations of the total raw score as
the passing mark.
Department Heads are required to post a Dean’s List of Top Performing Students in
their respective departmental bulletin board in also at the TMC System
Announcement Board and FB page in every semester per year level and per program.
In general, the College applies numerical grading system in rating the academic
performance of the students. This numerical grading system has corresponding
indication and percentage equivalent, as follows:
ADJECTIVAL RATING:
NUMERICAL RATING:
PERCENTAGE:
Excellent
1.00
99 - 100%
Highly Outstanding
1.25
96 – 98%
Outstanding
1.50
93 - 95%
Very Good
1.75
90 - 92%
Good
2.00
87 - 89%
Very Satisfactory
2.25
84 – 86%
Satisfactory
2.50
81 – 83%
Unsatisfactory
2.75
78 – 80%
Passed
3.00
75 – 77%
Failure
5.00
Below 74%
OTHER GRADING OPTIONS ARE THE FOLLOWING:
- W
-
Withdraw
- DR
-
Dropped
- INC
-
Incomplete
6.2
INCOMPLETE (INC). INC is given in cases where the students did not take the final
examination in any subject and his/her overall performance during the Prelim,
Midterm and Semi-final taken together would not be sufficient to merit a final
passing grade. An INC does not earn credit but does not indicate failure either. Those
with INC must file a Completion Form within a period of one (1) semester reckoned
from the semester the INC was incurred in order to be granted a final passing grade
otherwise failure to do so means an automatic failing grade of 5.0. In every school
term, the School Registrar sets a schedule for the filing of application to allow
students to comply with this rule, without interrupting the usual function/operation
of the office.
INC shall be given to student who failed to take examinations and/or failure to pass
other requirements ten (10) days after the conduct of the final examination.
STEPS IN THE APPLICATION FOR INC:
a. Pay the required amount of fees to the School Cashier upon the consent of the
instructor.
b. Present the Official Receipt for the payment made to the School Registrar for
the issuance of INC Form.
c. Give the form to the instructor concerned.
The instructor shall personally or through his/her authorized staff submits the
accomplished INC Form to the School Registrar. If the instructor concerned is no
longer working in the College, the Department Head may give the grade in behalf of
the latter, provided the completion period should not exceed one semester from the
time that such subject was enrolled.
SECTION 7. RETENTION POLICY:
If during any term, a non-FHE student fails in one-third (1/3) of the subjects enrolled,
he/she will be referred to the Guidance Counselor and may reenroll in the same
curriculum upon a written recommendation by the Department Head after conferring with
the Guidance Counselor. If a student flunks a second time, he/she shall not be allowed to
reenroll in the same curriculum but he/she may enroll in another curriculum if accepted by
the Department Head. If the student fails the third time, he/she shall be disqualified from
further registration at TMC. If a student flunks in two or more subjects, he/she shall be de-
loaded with a unit based on his/her ability as suggested by the Guidance Counselor and
approved by the Department Head.
7.1
FHE Scholars. For FHE Scholars who will fail in the Final Rating on any academic
subjects shall be automatically excluded from the list of grantees submitted to CHED-
UniFAST Central Office.
Disqualified FHE Students due to exceptional emergencies, global pandemic,
fortuitous events and the like, said students upon submission of valid justification as
determined by the Admission Officer, pay prescribed amount, retake, and pass the
college entrance examination in order to re-avail his/her FHE scholarship. The retake
policy due to above mention reason must be availed ONLY ONCE with supporting
documents as proof of the claim.
For FHE Scholars and Non-FHE students who violated Article 1, Section 1, sub-section
1.8, paragraph C, after due process has been observed shall not be accepted in TMC.
7.2
TES and TDP Grantees. For ongoing grantees, these are the following grounds for
students to be ineligible to TES:
a. Students who fail to enroll for 1 (one) academic term with NO Leave of Absence
(LOA);
b. Students who fail to enroll for at least 2 (two) academic terms within the
academic year;
c. Students who were expelled from TMC;
d. Applicants who submitted falsified documents;
e. Students who violated Article 1, Section 1, sub-section 1.8, letter C.; and
f. Grantees who fail to complete their academic or comparable undergraduate
program.
SECTION 8. RETURN OF SERVICE:
RETURN OF SERVICE. In compliance per Section 4, Paragraph 3 of the Implementing Rules
and Regulations (IRR) of Republic Act 10931, more commonly known as the Free Higher
Education Law, states that SUCs and LUCs are mandated to formulate and implement the
Return of Service Agreements (RSA) system for students benefiting from the free higher
education provision law as part of their admission and retention policies.
The RSA maybe in a form of community immersion, outreach program, coastal clean-up,
tree planting and other activities that the College President may deemed necessary. Also,
students could render return service to the school by helping out as registration assistants
or student assistants during the registration or enrollment period, volunteering during
college-wide activities, and participating in outreach drives for victims of natural calamities
organized by their schools, among others.
Upon the recommendation of Deans/Department Heads the total number of hours to be
rendered equivalent to total units of the curriculum enrolled by the students will be the
basis of the minimum hours to be rendered. However, additional hour/s be required if the
case may be applied on a certain circumstances. The return of service will form part of the
requirements for graduation.
The return of service will be facilitated and monitored by designated Scholarship
Coordinator. The detailed policies of the return of services are expounded in its
implementing rules and regulations.
SECTION 9. GRADUATION:
Students who satisfactorily complied with all requirements for graduation will be conferred
their respective degrees or titles under the following requirements:
a. The candidate for graduation shall request for evaluation of his/her records within one
(1) semester preceding his/her possible graduation to their respective Department
Heads;
b. Department Heads shall post the names of possible candidates for graduation in their
respective bulletin boards;
c. The candidate for graduation shall fill-up the Graduation Form and submit the same at
the Registrar’s Office within one (1) semester preceding his/her possible graduation;
d. Academic requirements for candidates for graduation which includes other fees
pertaining to graduation must be completed three (3) weeks before the graduation
ceremony;
e. In case the student is a transferee, he must be a resident of the college for at least one
year or two successive semesters regardless of the number of units enrolled to be
qualified for graduation;
f. All grades of graduating students must be completed prior to the graduation ceremony;
and
g. The candidate for graduation must be present at the commencement exercises and
must wear the prescribed graduation attire during the commencement exercises.
SECTION 10. SCHOLASTIC/GRADUATION HONORS:
Students who have successfully completed their respective courses with the following
average grades computed on the basis of units earned shall receive the corresponding
honors on graduation:
FOUR YEAR COURSE:
AVERAGE:
REMARKS:
Summa cum Laude
1.00 - 1.10
with no INC and grades below 1.50 of all subjects
including NSTP and PE in all periodic terms (first-
fourth year)
Magna cum Laude
1.11 - 1.24
with no INC and grades below 1.75 of all subjects
including NSTP and PE in all periodic terms (first-
fourth year)
Cum Laude
1.25 - 1.50
with no INC and grades below 2.00 of all subjects
including NSTP and PE in all periodic terms (first-
fourth year)
The candidates for scholastic or Latin honors must meet the following requirements:
a. Possess good moral character.
b. Have attended the number of school years required to complete the course
within the prescribed curriculum.
c. Carry a normal subject load, which means following the prescribed number of
units in the curriculum he/she enrolled including PE but not NSTP (CWTS/ROTC).
10.1
COMMITTEE for LATIN HONORS
The Committee for Latin Honors is composed of the VP for Academic and Student
Affair, VP for Administration and Finance, Deans, Registrar, Student Affairs Officer
and Guidance Counselor.
10.2  SELECTION PROCESS
1. Identification. The candidates for Latin Honors shall be identified within the
enrolment of 2nd semester. The following process shall be observed:
1.1 The Dean shall secure informative copy of student’s scholastic records /
Dean’s Lister from the Registrar’s Office to identify candidates for
endorsement of honor of his/her college.
1.2 The student is encouraged to apply for honors by submitting an application
letter and complete grades from 1st year to 4th year 1st semester to his/her
Dean in order for him/her to be included in the List of Candidates for Honors.
1.3 The Dean/Chairperson shall forward the list of candidates with the attached
informative copy of student’s scholastics records to the Student Affairs Office
for recommendation.
1.4 The Student Affairs Office shall furnish a copy of the list of candidates to
Office of VP for Academics and Students Affairs for approval.
2. Evaluation and Deliberation. The Office of VP for Academics and Students Affairs
shall convene the Committee for Latin Honors for the deliberation and evaluation
two days after the Final Examination for the graduating students. Attendance of
the majority of the members of the Committee for Latin Honors shall constitute a
quorum.
3. Publication. Official publication of the list shall be made at least 15 days before
graduation. Honor students should seek clarification or request correction of the
results within the week after publication.
10.3  EFFECTIVITY. This policy shall take effect starting the 1st semester of academic year
2023-2024. The scheme supersedes all other previous criteria on the selection of
honor graduates.

OTHER OUTSTANDING GRADUATES ARE ALSO GIVEN AWARDS IN THE FORM OF:
MEDALS AND CERTIFICATES UNDER ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CATEGORIES:
a. Practical Application Proficiency – given to the graduates taking computer and
technology courses whose practical application knowledge and performance is
excellent as recommended by the Dean and finally approved by the VPAA and
the College President.
b. Leadership Medal – awarded to the graduates who displayed exemplary
leadership as in campus politics, clubs and other societies, in NSTP, Practicum
Chief, SSG President, and in a case as recommended by the Students Affairs
Office Head and finally approved by the VPAA and the College President.
c. Exemplary Award – awarded in sport in athletic competition where the
student/s represents the College and in local, national, and international
assemblies and other activities or competition that bring honor to the College
recommended by the Sports Coordinator / Adviser and finally approved by the
VPAA and the College President.
d. Special Award – awarded to academic excellence by topping the Board
Examination handled by PRC.
e. Other Awards - to be recommended by the Deans and finally approved by the
VPAA and the College President.
