ARTICLE II ACADEMIC POLICIES:
ADMISSION, ENROLLMENT AND REGISTRATION:

ARTICLE Ii
Academic policies
SECTION 1. ADMISSION POLICY:
The school adopts a policy of open admission to a student with complete necessary
credentials upon enrollment and whose qualification is subject to other prescribed
admission requirements.
1.1
The basic requirement for eligibility for admission of a student to any course in the
College shall be graduation from a Senior High School from Department of Education
(DepEd) recognized Secondary Schools.
Pursuant RA 10931, CHED-Unifast Memorandum order and to prevailing Law/Policy
on Alternative Learning System-Accreditation and Equivalency Program (ALS-A&E),
TMC recognizes its benefits regarding enrollment of ALS graduates ending 2nd
semester AY 2020.
However, ALS graduates are eligible for enrolment in the non-board examination
courses only.
1.2
Admission to Free Education is open to all students who pass the college entrance
examination either board and non-board courses and meet the school’s specific
standards, requirements and regulations as provided in this manual.
Continuing students who passed a non-board entrance examination and wish to shift
to a board course must undergo the admission test for board courses prior to their
admission.
For admission of non-passers, they will have to execute voluntary waivers in order to
be enrolled at TMC and pay their required tuition and other school fees.
1.3
The student who qualifies for enrollment shall stay for the entire period in which
he/she is expected to complete his/her course without prejudice to his/her right to
transfer to other schools within the prescribed period provided that said student has
meet the retention policies as provided in this manual.
1.4
No student is deemed officially enrolled unless he/she submits the required
admission documents upon enrollment.
1.5
A student is deemed officially enrolled after he/she has been given a printed Study
Load by the School Registrar.
The releasing of Study Load to students will be done after the Final Subject Loading
of Instructor.
A student is eligible for admission to board courses provided he/she meets the
following:
a. Must be a Senior High School Graduate;
a.1 Those applicants with partial grade must comply with grade requirement per
program upon enrolment; and
a.2 Those who failed to comply the grade requirements of a.1 mentioned-above
are advised to enroll to non-board courses.
b. With at least 85% grades for English, Science and Math (EnSciMa) and allied
subjects for Education students;
c. With weighted general average of 88% for BSCRIM students;
d. Must undergo the personal and situational interview.
1.6
Per CHED Memorandum Order No. 18 series of 2018, all students are required to
submit latest (1 week) Drug Test Result upon enrolment every semester.
1.7
As a matter of policy, TMC after observing due process does not admit for
enrollment of the following:
a. Those publicly known to be scandalously immoral;
b. Those publicly known to be involved in illegal drugs and other illegal activities;
c. Those who posted, shared, printed and broadcasted in social, print and
broadcast media malicious, derogatory and disrespectful statements or remarks
to the school, administration, faculty and staff and to the Local Government Unit
of Trinidad in general;
d. Those convicted by a court of justice for moral turpitude for a period of more
than a year of imprisonment; and
e. Those determined to be ineligible for enrollment by the Board of Trustees of
TMC for justifiable reasons.
SECTION 2. STUDENTS’ CLASSIFICATION AND THEIR
                      RESPECTIVE  ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
2.1
NEW STUDENTS. New students refer to graduates of senior high school or ALS
enrolling in the college for the first time. New students shall be eligible for
enrollment after passing the respective college entrance examination and must
submit the following documents and requirements:
a. Senior High School Report Card (DepEd Form 138) or ALS-A&E  Certificate;
b. Certificate of Good Moral Character issued by the High School Principal;
c. One (1) original and photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by Philippine
Statistics Authority (PSA);
d. Two (2) long brown envelope;
e. Two (2) long folders of the departmental color;
f. Four (4) pieces 1x1 ID Pictures;
g. Medical Certificate issued by a Designated School Physician or any Licensed
Physicians  with attached Original OR; and
h. Latest Drug Test Result from DOH accredited drug testing center.
2.2
TRANSFEREE STUDENTS. Transferees are those who wish to study at TMC after they
had enrolled in other college/s. They are also former students of TMC who returned
after they had enrolled in other institution. A transferee should have at least one-
year study in TMC before graduation. Transferee students shall be eligible for
enrolment after passing their respective college entrance examination and must
submit the following:
a. Honorable Dismissal/Transfer Credentials;
b. Certification from previous HEI attesting that he/she is not a UNIFAST Scholar;
c. Certificate of Good Moral Character from previous HEI;
d. One (1) original and photocopy of Birth Certificate issued by Philippine Statistics
Authority (PSA);
e. Two (2) long brown envelope;
f. Two (2) long folders of the departmental color;
g. Four (4) pieces 1x1 ID Pictures; and
h. Medical Certificate issued by a Designated School Physician or Licensed
Physicians with attached original OR; and
i. Latest Drug Test Result from DOH accredited drug testing center.
2.3
RESIDENT/CONTINUING STUDENTS. Resident/Continuing students are those who
had enrolled at TMC during the previous semester and continue to enroll for the
current semester. Upon enrollment, a resident/continuing student not covered
under Article 1, Section 1, Sub-section 1.8, must secure his/her grade slip of the
previous semester from his/her Department Head for evaluation and to be finally
approved by the School Registrar.
2.4
RETURNEE STUDENTS. Returnee students are those previously enrolled in the
college either in the immediately preceding semester or after having stopped
without enrolling elsewhere.
Returnee students shall be eligible for enrolment after passing their respective
college entrance examination and must submit the following:
a. Medical Certificate issued by Designated School Physician or any Licensed
Physicians with attached with original OR;
b. Latest Drug Test Result from DOH accredited drug testing center; and
c. No outstanding balance in the previous semester/s at TMC.
2.5
SHIFTEE STUDENTS. Shiftee students refer to resident/old students who shift from
one course to another within the college. In general, shifting of courses is
discouraged. Shiftee student shall submit and comply the following admission
requirements:
a. Previous School ID;
b. 4 pcs. 1x1 ID Pictures;
c. Two (2) Long Brown Envelope;
d. Two (2) long folders of the departmental color;
e. Medical Certificate issued by Designated School Physician or any Licensed
Physicians with attached original OR;
f. For non-board course passer, at least 2.0 and above of all credited subjects;
g. Must pass the entrance exam result for board courses; and
h. Latest Drug Test Result from DOH accredited drug testing center.
2.6
ALIENS AND NATURALIZED FILIPINOS. Aside from the requirements stated under
Art. 1, Section 2.1, students under this classification must submit the following
additional requirements to the Office of the School Registrar:
a. Three (3) photocopies of Alien Certificate of Registration (ACR) which must be
certified against the original copy for easy verification for the Philippine-born
aliens.
b. A copy of Identification Certificate issued by the Bureau of Immigration or other
concerned government office/s and a copy of Birth Certificate from LCR for the
naturalized Filipino citizens.
c. A copy of Birth Certificate issued by the Local Civil Registrar (LCR) for the Filipino
citizens whose family names are of foreign origin.
2.7
BONA FIDE STUDENTS. Bona fide students are those who are officially enrolled and
included in the official list of students in the records of the School Registrar, attend
classes, must not be absent of not more than 20% of the total number of school
days and have not been dropped from the rolls.
2.8
LEVEL OF CLASSIFICATION OF COLLEGE STUDENTS:
- First Year
-
enrolled subject/s in the first/second semester in the
first year of the program curriculum
- Second Year
-
enrolled subject/s in the first/second semester in the
second year and passed all subjects in the first year of
the program curriculum
- Third Year
-
enrolled subject/s in the first/second semester in the
third year and passed all subjects in the second year of
the program curriculum
- Fourth Year
-
enrolled subject/s in the first/second semester in the
fourth year and passed all subjects in the third year of
the program curriculum
2.9
RULE IN CASE OF DISCREPANCY IN THE NAME OF ENROLLED STUDENT. In general,
for purposes of enrollment, the name and other personal data or circumstances of
each student as indicated on his/her PSA issued Birth Certificate shall prevail.
SECTION 3. ENROLLMENT AND REGISTRATION:
                      PROCEDURES:
Students must enroll personally during the prescribed enrollment and registration period.
Detailed instructions regarding enrollment procedures are posted at the TMC main bulletin
board within school premises. NO ENROLLMENT BY PROXY IS ALLOWED except for valid
reason/s to be determined by the school authorities upon presentation of the duly
notarized special power of attorney. No enrolment is possible without the necessary
credentials.
3.1
ENROLLMENT FLOW. Students must follow the enrollment procedures, enumerated
below, to avoid delay and disruption in the enrollment process for their own good
and convenience.
STEP:
NUMBER:
NEW/TRANSFEREE/ RETURNEE:
STUDENTS:
RESIDENTS/CONTINUING:
STUDENTS:
1
Proceed to the Guidance Office for
Career Guidance and Counseling.
Secure grade slip from the
Department Head for evaluation.
2
Take and pass the college
entrance examination.
Proceed to the information table
and secure enrollment form.
3
Present your credentials for
inspection
at
the
information table.
Proceed to Student Affairs Office
(SAO) for updating and validating
of information.
4
Proceed to the information table
and secure enrollment form.
Go to your respective department
heads for initial evaluation and
tabulation.
5
Go to your respective department
heads for initial evaluation and
tabulation.
Proceed to the School Cashier for
assessment and full payment.
(Non- UNIFAST Scholars and
Returning Students).
6
Proceed to Student Affairs Office
(SAO)
for encoding
of
basic
information and the issuance of
student ID number.
Proceed to the School Registrar
for submission of requirements,
approval and issuance of
study load.
7
Proceed to the School Cashier for
assessment and initial payment.
(Non-UNIFAST Scholars)
8
Proceed to the School Registrar
for submission of equirements,
approval and issuance of
study load.
3.2
ADDING, DROPPING AND CHANGING (ADC) OF SUBJECT/S. The school through the
School Registrar allows adding, dropping and changing of subjects during enrolment
period. No one is allowed to add, drop or change (ADC) subject/s after the specified
period. However for dissolve subjects as posted in the departmental bulletin board,
the student shall have the option to choose any available schedules provided that
the same are not in conflict with his/her other subjects.
3.2.1 Procedure in Adding/ Dropping/ Changing Subjects:
a. Seek permission and approval from the Dean / Department Head
concerning ADC with signed Study Load.
b. Proceed to the School Cashier with signed Study Load for payment of ADC
form.
c. Fill-up ADC form with changed subjects duly approved by the Department
Head concerned. Changing of time and instructor are not allowed.
d. Proceed to the Electronic Data Processing (EDP) for reassessment of
fees.
e. Submit the form to the School Registrar for printing of new Study Load.
3.3
CROSS ENROLLMENT. In general, cross enrollment is discouraged. However, for valid
reasons as determined by and with the prior written authority of the school he/she
is regularly enrolled in, a student maybe permitted to cross enroll in another school
for up to the normal subject load for that particular term. No student may cross
enroll or enroll simultaneously in two schools without the prior approval of the
Dean and Registrar of the school. Cross enrollment is granted only if the applicant is
a candidate for graduation during the academic year he/she is enrolled and in case
where the subjects are not offered or in conflict with other subjects.
SPECIAL SUBJECT OFFERING. A student may allowed to request special subject
offering with the following considerations provided however that the student
concerned shall personally shoulder the salary of the Instructor assigned subject to
the existing policy on salaries of faculty members:
- if the applicant is a candidate for graduation
- if the subject is prerequisite
3.4
WITHDRAWAL FROM SUBJECT/CURRICULUM. The students may officially withdraw
from subject/s and course even after the close of the enrollment period. He/she
must submit a letter stating the reason for withdrawal signed by the students
concern and the parent/s with the recommendation of the Department Head, noted
by the Registrar and approved by the College Administrator. The duly signed letter
must be submitted to the Registrar Office for recording purposes.
Withdrawal from subject/course will not be granted in the following cases:
a. If the number of unexcused absences from the class make up twenty percent
(20%) of the official number of classes; and
