POLICY AGAINST SEXUAL HARASSMENT (COMMITTEE ON DECORUM AND INVESTIGATION):

Definitions
This policy uses the following definitions:
1. “Student” means a person duly enrolled for any of the following:
(a) a degree or course, (b) certificate course, or (c) cross-
registration in any of the academic units, institutes, or training
centers of TMC.
2. “Employee” means any person who holds an official appointment
or designation, with or without remuneration; in any unit or
office, academic or administrative; and includes casual, contractual
or project employees of TMC; and
3. “Faculty member” means any member of the teaching staff of
TMC, regardless of academic rank or category and includes the
librarian, guidance counselor, researcher or research associate,
coach, trainer or training specialist, and extension worker.
When Sexual Harassment is Committed
“Sexual Harassment” is committed by an officer, employee, faculty
member, coach, trainer, or any person who, having influence, moral
ascendancy and authority over another demands, requests or
otherwise requires any sexual favor from the other, regardless of
whether such demand, request or requirement is accepted by the
latter. This authority, influence or moral ascendancy may be in any
aspect of academic or administrative work in any unit, office, institute,
classroom, theater, playing court, training field or any other place
within the premises and jurisdiction of TMC.
Sexual harassment occurs when:
1. The sexual favor is made as a condition for hiring, employment or
reemployment of the individual who is the object of sexual
harassment, or the basis for granting such individual favorable
compensation, promotion or privileges or the refusal to grant the
sexual favor results in discrimination or adversely affects such
faculty member or employee;
2. The person with authority, influence or moral ascendancy over
another uses sexually suggestive language, graphics or action or
employ physical contact with sexual undertones;
3. The above acts impair the rights or privileges of the faculty
member or employee under the Constitution, the Labor Code and
other related rules and regulations;
4. The above acts would result in an intimidating, hostile or offensive
employment environment for the faculty member or employee.
In the academic, teaching or study environment, sexual harassment
is committed:
1. Against a student, trainee or one who is under the care, custody,
supervision or “advisorship” of the offender;
2. Against one whose education, apprenticeship or tutorship is
entrusted to the offender;
3. When the sexual favor is used as a condition for the issuance of a
passing grade, the granting of honors and scholarships, stipend,
allowance or other benefits, privileges, or considerations;
4. When a person with authority, influence or moral ascendancy
over a student, trainee or apprentice, uses sexually suggestive
language, graphics or action or employs physical contact with
sexual undertones; or
5. When sexual advances result in an intimidating, hostile or
offensive academic environment for the student, trainee or
apprentice.
Policy Standards and Guidelines
The following guidelines shall be observed at all times within the
premises of TMC and outside campus during an official school
activity:
1. The policy applies to all officials, faculty members, academic
support staff, and students within the jurisdiction of TMC. This
policy also includes applicants for academic or administrative
positions, as well as students applying for admission into any of
the academic units, institutes, or training centers of TMC, after the
application has been duly filed.
2. Romantic and intimate relationships between school Officials,
Faculty and Staff and students are strictly discouraged.
3. All reported incidents or cases of sexual harassment shall be
investigated; appropriate disciplinary or legal action will be taken,
with the consent of the complainant, taking into account the
integrity and other preponderant interest of TMC.
4. TMC will provide all possible support service to students, faculty
members, academic support staff or administrators who are
victims of sexual harassment.
5. Any person connected with TMC as an officer, faculty member or
employee, who directs or induces another to commit any act of
sexual harassment as previously defined, or who assists another in
performing such acts shall be held accountable.
6. Sexual harassment may come in any form: verbal, non-verbal,

written or physical.
Committee on Decorum and Investigation of Sexual Harassment
Complaints
The “Committee on Decorum and Investigation of Complaints of
Sexual Harassment” shall be composed of representatives of the
management, supervisory and the administrative support units when
the complainant is an employee or an applicant for employment.
When the complainant is a faculty member or an applicant for
teaching position or a student or an applicant for enrollment, the
committee shall be composed of academic administrators, faculty
members and students.
In the best interest of the complainant and of the school, unit
autonomy is normally observed thereby granting the unit heads to
take direct jurisdiction over the complaint and immediately resolve
the same.
PENALTY:
First Offense
-
Suspension
Second Offense
-
Exclusion
Third Offense
-
Expulsion
