TRINIDAD MUNICIPAL COLLEGE SEAL AND BRAND MARK:

TRINIDAD MUNICIPAL COLLEGE SEAL:
The TMC brand mark is intended to be the “face” of the college.
This is a graphical display of the school’s unique identity, and
through colors and fonts and images they provide essential
information about the college and allow students, parents and
teachers to identify with the institution’s core brand. There shall
be adopted a new official brand mark of Trinidad Municipal
College per Municipal Ordinance No. 09, Series of 2017 which
illustrated on the left side therein, with the following symbols
and their corresponding meaning and interpretation.
“TRINIDAD MUNICIPAL COLLEGE” IN WHITE LETTERS. The official typeface applied
in the Trinidad Municipal College logo is AVER. A serif font is used the creation of the brand
mark to show the utmost sophistication and elegance. The school is to represent the
academic sector in the community, the Roman typeface is but fitting to its application. In
order to achieve consistency within all communication materials and collaterals, the font
Aver must be used to banner the college’s name. The type should be positioned inside the
seal in a concave orientation and centered within the circle seal. The color is white on a dark
blue background to properly apply contrast within the colors and ensure readability of the
fonts.
There are three different representations of the icons found in the logo. These
representations symbolize the principles of the school, which are: Knowledge, Skill and
Leadership.
The Tagline: “A Tradition of Excellence” – The principles of Knowledge, Skill and
Leadership are all instrumental in maintaining the TMC Tradition of Excellence. This tagline
therefore, encompasses the Vision and Mission of the school so that they may be able to
accomplish their goals and objectives.
The Central Icons. The Open Book – the unfolded book in the logo represents the
principle of Knowledge. It personifies the school’s ardor for education. Since its historical
founding in the year 1985, the school has struggled for its existence and has now become a
contributing factor to the Municipality’s success.
The Abbreviation “TMC” – In this logo, abbreviations for Trinidad Municipal College
are in a left to right construal position. This helps ensure better visual comprehension.
The Torch – The torch in the logo represents the principle of Leadership, which aims
to express that the institution endeavors to produce future leaders for the Filipino
community.
The Enclosing Laurel Wreath – The Laurel wreath in the logo was modified to fit
the identity of the local community. The wreath icon therefore, is not only made to embody
an academic purpose but it exists also as a symbol for agriculture. The Municipality of
Trinidad is known to be an agriculturally rich community. This symbol also conveys the
principle of Skills which is one of the values found in most agricultural communities.
The TMC Seal was redesigned by Hon. Joan Robie D. Cajes-Imboy in the year 2017.
