ARTICLE V NON-ACADEMIC DIRECTIVES:

ARTICLE v
Non-academic directives
SECTION 1. GENERAL DIRECTIVES:
A. TMC strictly implements the “NO UNIFORM, NO ID, NO ENTRY POLICY”. For this purpose,
all students are required to be in complete uniforms during class days as describe below.
However, during Wednesdays smart casual yet decent clothes/attire are allowed but
students must always wear their IDs.
1. College Uniform
For Female Students:
a. White blouse with blue accent and a tie and blue skirt
b. Pair of plain, closed, black shoes
c. TMC I.D. card properly displayed at all times while in school campus and
premises
For Male Students:
a. White Polo barong with TMC logo and with blue and yellow accent
b. Plain black long slack pants
c. Plain white tucked undershirt
d. Pair of plain black leather shoes with black socks
e. TMC I.D. card properly displayed at all times while in school campus and
premises
f. Short haircut
g. Not allowed haircuts and hair styles
- Man bun
- Pompadour
- Top knot
- Under cut
- Hair lines
- Slicked Back hair
- Bowl cut
- Mullet
h. No earrings and piercings
BS Criminology students, both male and female shall wear the prescribed “Type
A” uniform with TMC I.D. card properly displayed at all times while in school
campus and premises
2. Wednesday Dress Code
 For Female Students:
a. No flimsy blouse
b. No mid-bare backs or spaghetti tops without bolero
c. No braless tube or midriff tops
d. Sleeveless but not halter tops are allowed
e. No plunging or deep neckline
f. No mini skirts
g. No ripped jeans
h. No blonde hair
i. No short pants
j. No slippers
k. TMC I.D. card properly displayed at all times while in campus and premises.
For Male Students:
a. No sleeveless shirt
b. No short pants
c. No slippers
d. No piercings
e. No ripped jeans
f. No blonde hair
g. TMC I.D. card must be openly and properly displayed at all times while in
campus and premises.
3. Students with physical disabilities are encouraged to abide by the dress code as
much as possible.
4. Both female and male uniforms must follow the style and materials prescribed
by the school.
5. Students who do not follow the prescribed cut, material and appropriate manner
of wearing the school uniform shall not be allowed to enter the school campus
and premises.
6. Students must be well-groomed. Hair color, hairstyle and hair accessories that
call undue attention are not allowed.
7. Students are discouraged from wearing expensive jewelry and are prohibited
from wearing bold fashion jewelry or accessories, including nose ring, eyebrow
rings, tongue ring, navel ring and lip ring.
8. Public display of temporary and permanent body tattoo is discouraged within the
school campus and premises.
9. Students are required to wear P.E. uniform exclusively in P.E. classes only.
10. The TMC uniform is symbol of the school hence students must wear it with pride
and conduct themselves at all times with dignity, in and out of the school campus
and premises.
B. Students on practicum and those involved in athletic activities should change into
civilian wear only prior to the activities. School uniforms should be worn again
immediately after the said activity. The School Administrator decides on exemptions
from the uniform policy on a case-to-case basis.
C. Each student is issued an official identification number by the Student Affairs Office
(OSA) and validates the ID card at the start of each semester.
D. The I.D. card is valid as long as the student is currently enrolled in the school. It is
required to be worn upon entering the school campus and premises.
E. The school STRICTLY implements a NO UNIFORM, NO ID, NO ENTRY POLICY.
Loss of I.D card should be immediately reported to the OSA so that a temporary
replacement ID / gate pass good only for 5 days can be secured pending issuance of the
replacement permanent I.D bearing the same student number of the lost I.D after the
presentation of the following documents:
- Police Report in case of theft, robbery, hold-up
- Affidavit of loss in case of negligence and inadvertence
- Official Receipt showing payment of the new permanent replacement I.D
F. Students who have transferred residence or have changed civil status shall immediately
inform the School Registrar in writing about the change. A photocopy of the marriage
contract must be submitted to both the School Registrar and Student Affairs Office
Head. Students are liable for any incorrect information in the I.D. card, registration form
and other school documents. Any letter sent to the address written on the student’s file
is considered delivered.
G. Upon admission to TMC, school authorities regard STUDENTS AS ADULTS. Thus, the
obligation to keep parents/guardians informed of their academic standing and the
impending consequences of failures or excess absences lies with the students. School
authorities are not responsible for the parent’s ignorance on their children’s academic
status.
H. As students of TMC, they have the obligation to attend/participate all required official
school and LGU activities as well as in-campus and off-      campus activities. Omission
and/or refusal to comply with said obligation shall be a ground for disciplinary action.
I. TMC generally follows the CHED Memorandum Order No. 15, series of 2012 with regard
to the cancellation of classes due to typhoons/storms, flooding and other weather
disturbances unless there is/are amendments or revision of this memorandum order.
Signal No. 3
Cancellation or suspension of classes at the College Level
As a general guideline, there will be classes if the CHED or the School administration
does not make any announcement to suspend classes and work.
J. All official business with any administrative personnel must be transacted in writing.
Oral arrangements or agreements are not considered valid. All communications from
students must be type written/computerized and duly signed.
K. Information regarding students enrolled at the College may be obtained only from the
office of the Registrar or the Students Affairs Office.
SECTION 2. SOCIAL NORMS:
College students are expected to behave, at all times, on and off campus, to earn respect for
themselves and admiration for the School as an educational institution. The following
school norms will ensure an atmosphere conducive to the formation of responsible and
mature Citizens as well as maintain order necessary for the common good:
A. The usual norms of courtesy and etiquette should be observed in all dealings with
office personnel, faculty members and administrative officials. Any of these
personalities may ask for the I.D. card of students who display disrespectful
behavior.
B. Healthy interaction with members of the opposite sex is encouraged. Boisterous or
obscene behavior and any act or gesture which tends to distract others or offend the
sensibilities of the members of the TMC community is prohibited.
C. Any student who does not comply with classroom procedures, or is guilty of
misdemeanor, may be sent out of class. Such students should report to the Students
Affairs to secure a written note from the OSA authorizing the students to re-enter
the class for the next meeting. Should this behavior persist, the case shall be
referred to the OSA which shall investigate the matter.
D. Classrooms and surroundings must be kept clean and orderly at all times. The
teacher’s table, chairs, chalk, etc. should be in their proper places. Littering
anywhere is prohibited. Electric fans, room air conditioners (if applicable) and lights
should be switched off at the end of each class.
E. Equipment should be handled with reasonable care and properly returned/stored
after use. Malfunction of any school equipment or facilities should be reported to
the General Services Office (GSO) through the School Property Custodian. If a
student through negligence as determined by the GSO, has damaged any equipment
or school property, he/she must either cause the repair if repairable or to replace
the unit or pay the damage if beyond repair.
F. TMC is a smoke-free campus and consistently maintain a “NO SMOKING” POLICY.
G. Any form of gambling including the use of playing cards and other gambling
paraphernalia, use of narcotic drugs and alcoholic drinks within school ground are
strictly prohibited.
H. Students have the right to use campus facilities for business meetings and for social,
cultural and recreational activities. Reservations forms may be secured from the
Office of the School Administrator. The College has the right to deny the use of
facilities to those who are unwilling to abide by the school regulations.
I. Clubs or organizations who invite guests from outside the campus (e.g., speakers,
seminars / workshop participants, mass presbyters) are required to fill out a
reservation form for the use of facilities subject to availability and approval of the
Municipal Mayor. Outsiders are not allowed on campus unless on official business
and issued a visitors I.D. by the TMC Guard.
J. Students may release to the press, or similar channels of public communication,
notices of College or student activities upon securing a clearance from the Office of
the Students Affairs (OSA).
K. The Office of the College Registrar may allow the use of the public / paging address
system. However, the faculty member in the classroom shall allow the room-to-
room SSG and vocation campaigns for a maximum of five (5) minutes. Forms for
this purpose are available at the Students Affairs Office.
L. TMC students are discouraged from joining public rallies/assemblies held outside the
school premises. Hence, TMC is not responsible to those students who decide to join
such rallies/assemblies held outside the school premises and their non-attendance
to their respective classes is considered unauthorized and unexcused.
M. Students who, in their personal capacities, wish to participate in any activities
outside the school campus during school days must secure prior written permission
from the School Administrator.
N. Violation of library rules and regulations will be subject to disciplinary action. The
college librarian is authorized to apply the sanctions for minor violations. Major
violations are referred to the OSA and finally recommended to the BOT for
appropriate actions.
O. Participation in activities that diminish respect for the dignity of a person by wearing
indecent attire and improper poses is prohibited.
P. The BOT will investigate any student reported to be engaged in scandalous behavior.
After a thorough investigation and due process a student may be excluded and/or
expelled if he/she does not conform to the standards of responsibility and dignity
expected of TMC students.
SECTION 3. STANDARDS FOR MARRIED STUDENTS:
The policy on married students arises out of the School’s genuine concern for those married
students who wish to complete their college education. In order to ensure a balance
between a successful academic experience and harmonious marital relationships, TMC has
set up certain measures to facilitate their academic adjustment. The following factors are
ordinarily considered for their admission/continuance or re-admission:
A. Married students regardless of age and year level are eligible for admission, re-
admission or continued education provided they meet the admission and retention
requirements of TMC.
B. A student who gets married while in TMC must inform the Students Affairs Office
Head and School Registrar about his/her change of status. Certified true copies of
the marriage contract should be submitted to the Office of the Students Affairs
(OSA) and to the School Registrar a month after the wedding.
SECTION 4. STANDARDS FOR MARRIED AND SINGLE:
                      PREGNANT STUDENTS:
TMC is firm in its stand to uphold the rights of women to have equal access to good
education void of prejudice and discrimination. As an institution, we look forward to a
student’s academic success as much as we value the importance of producing Mothers who
help cultivate the community. To ensure that the students conform to the college’s
regulations and warrant proper decorum, the following policies are considered for their
admission, continuance or re-admission:
A. A married or single female student who is pregnant while starting or continuing her
formal education in TMC must inform the Student Affairs Office Head and School
Registrar about her pregnancy. If she seeks to appeal for an adjustment of her
academic schedule, she must write in formal letter to the School Administrator to
explain her intentions.
B. Married and single pregnant students must present themselves to the Guidance
Office for Responsible Parenthood Counseling. This is part of TMC’s effort to aid in
the student’s basic family formation. For Single Pregnant Students, the Guidance
Office may refer her to the Local Government Unit’s Rural Health Unit of MSWD to
institute a better understanding of a solo parent’s welfare and privileges provided for
by the community.
C. A married or single student who is pregnant at 13 weeks or in her second trimester
of pregnancy and is starting or continuing her education at TMC, is required to wear
the prescribed maternity uniform.
SECTION 5. SPORTS COORDINATOR’S OFFICE.
This office is responsible for directing and managing all sports activities directly affecting the
College. It provides a system of sustainable sports development and creates sports teams
that uphold the dignity and good name of the College.
The selection and retention of the members of the Varsity Teams is based on the following
criteria:
a. good moral character
b. must have an average grade of at least 2.5 with no failing grades
c. exemplary playing ability
d. recommended by the coach
e. approved by the School Administrator
5.1
THE RULES AND REGULATIONS THAT GOVERN THE BASKETBALL AND:
VOLLEYBALL VARSITY PLAYERS OF TMC ARE THE FOLLOWING:
a. A student who desires to apply for a varsity player must attend all scheduled
tryouts, practices and official games participated and/or organized by TMC
b. The player shall have a minimum load of 18 units.
c. Players caught under the influence of liquor during practice or a certain game
may be debarred or suspended from playing that game. Those caught under the
influence of drugs during practice or a certain game shall be dropped from the
team.
d. Players suspended thrice by the Coach or Sports Coordinator shall be dropped
from the team.
e. The coach upon the approval of the Sports Coordinator may impose such
disciplinary measure as it may deem appropriate and necessary on any player
who is a liability to the team, provided due process has been observed.
f. It is the responsibility of the Varsity Players to uphold and promote the name
and integrity of TMC, thus they must always conduct/do their best, especially in
the outside-the-campus athletic competitions.
g. No games/practices are to be scheduled within the official major examinations.
h. Basketball varsity players are prohibited to play basketball departmental
competition but they can play volleyball and other departmental sports events.
Likewise, volleyball varsity players are prohibited to play departmental volleyball
competition but they can play other department sports event. However, varsity
players can serve as officiating officials.
5.2 GUIDELINES ON DEPARTMENTAL SPORTS, SOCIO-CULTURAL EVENTS AND COLLEGE
DAYS:
All Departments, Municipal, Provincial, National SSG Officers must exclusively
patronize coaches, choreographers, artist and trainers from TMC community in any
departmental sports, socio-cultural events and college days.
SECTION 6. OTHER PROGRAMS AND SERVICES:
6.1
Canteens
The campus canteens enjoy the patronage of students, teachers, parents, and the
non-teaching staff. They serve nutritious, clean, and affordable snacks and meals
with the canteen and concessionaires’ staff complete with necessary health permits.
The canteens are accessibly located and they serve their clientele from Monday to
Friday.
6.2
Students Dormitory
6.3
College Information
a. TMC Website (http://www.trinidad-bohol.gov.ph/trinidad- municipal-college)
b. Facebook Page : https://facebook.com/trinidadmunicipalcollegeofficial
c. Contact Number:
d. Email address
:
e. Telephone / Fax Number:
f. Bulletin Boards - The school maintains bulletin boards that are strategically
located. All student organizations’ postings must pass through the Office of the
Student Affairs (OSA) for approval. The school reserves the right to deny the
posting of materials, which it considers not important for the students in general.
6.4
Bridge Program
The Bridge Program is a learning assistance program for incoming Senior High School
(SHS) students who wish to enroll in a course off their track. The program aims to
help the students adjust to college instruction. The said program is for students who
took SHS strands that are “mismatched” with their current tertiary education course.
They may be required to take additional subjects in order to “demonstrate the
competencies” required of a graduate of a strand aligned with the course.
Registration in the Bridge Program is voluntary.
6.5
Safety and Security Services
The Safety and Security Services maintains peace and order in the school campus. It
also ensures the safety of the lives of the students, personnel, and officials as well as
the property of the school and the safe use of its building, facilities and equipment.
Likewise, it monitors the safety and security aspects of all construction projects and
maintenance works undertaken by the college including those by outside contractors
and makes the proper assessment, evaluation and recommendations.
6.6
Thesis Writing
Thesis writing subject in college refers to the reasons and justifications behind
choosing a particular topic or theme related to the process of writing a thesis itself.
Unlike a research-oriented thesis, a thesis writing subject focuses on exploring,
analyzing, and presenting various aspects of the thesis writing process rather than
conducting original research.
Thesis writing subject should revolve around enhancing students' thesis writing
experience, helping them develop essential academic skills, and supporting their
overall academic and professional growth. By providing valuable insights, resources,
and guidance, the chosen subject can contribute to the success of students' thesis
endeavors.
6.6.1 Guidelines for Thesis Advising in the Undergraduate Degree Programs
All Thesis advisers must be a Faculty Member of TMC and must possess
appropriate qualifications (Doctor’s degree).  Advisers should familiarize
themselves with the general College rules and their specific College’s rules
governing advising students enrolled in the undergraduate thesis or other
similar requirements (eg, special problem, a major paper, capstone project,
group thesis, etc).
While practices among different academic units may differ, these generally
involve appointment of an adviser, a thesis proposal presentation, and a
thesis defense. An undergraduate thesis should ideally be completed within a
semester, as preliminary work is done at least one semester prior to
enrolment in the thesis proper.
The completion of a thesis within a reasonable length of time is the joint
responsibility of both student and adviser. Both make a commitment to work
together to ensure that the output will be of acceptable merit and
scholarship and that it is completed on a date agreed upon. A good working
relationship between the two parties is thus crucial to this effort.
6.6.2 Panel Member
Panelist shall be a member of the TMC Faculty and/or connected with TMC
with appropriate qualifications.
6.6.3 Contributions
Collection of contributions for Thesis Proposal Presentations and Thesis Oral
Defense (Thesis 1 & Thesis 2) shall be uniform across all colleges/academic
department with the amount of One Thousand Five Hundred (PhP 1,500.00)
Pesos only per group of five (5) students.
6.6.4 Thesis Output
Copies of thesis outputs shall be furnished to College Library/Librarian for
record purposes.
