ARTICLE I ORGANIZATIONAL COMPOSITION:

ARTICLE I:
ORGANIZATIONAL COMPOSITION:
SECTION 1. COLLEGE PRESIDENT:
The administration of the College shall be vested in the College President who shall render
full time service. The powers and duties of the college president shall perform specific
powers and duties as follows:
1. He/She shall have general supervision and control of all business matters as well as
all administrative and financial operations of TMC;
2. He/She shall be ex-officio head of all officers, members of the teaching
staff, administrative and all other employees of TMC;
3. He/She shall carry on the general policies lay down by the BOT and shall have the
power to act within the limits of the said general policies.
4. He/She shall have the power to determine and prepare agenda of all meetings of the
BOT, the Administrative Council and of the Academic Council; provided, however,
that any member shall have the right to suggest any matter for inclusion in the
agenda;
5. He/She shall preside at commencement exercises and other public affairs of the
College and confer such degrees and honors as confirmed by the BOT. All diplomas
and certificates issued by the institution shall be signed by him/her by the
College/College Registrar;
6. He/She shall be the official link of communication between the faculty, personnel,
and students of the institution on the one hand, and the BOT or the Board of
Trustees on the other;
7. He/She can appoint competent and qualified persons to fill all vacancies and new
positions as delegated by the BOT. He/She shall have the authority to fill vacancies
temporarily and to make such arrangements as necessary to meet all exigencies that
may occur between the meetings of the BOT so as not to unduly hamper the
operations of the institution;
8. He/She shall have the authority to transfer faculty members and employees from
one department or unit of the institution to another in accordance with existing laws
and rules subject to the confirmation by the BOT;
9. He/She shall hold all officers, faculty and employees of the institution, duty-bound to
the full discharge of their respective duties. When necessity arises and in the interest
of public service, he/she shall after consultation with the Dean or the Head of Office
or Unit concerned, initiate the necessary proceedings for the separation from the
service of the erring faculty members or administrative personnel;
10. He/She shall execute and sign, on behalf of the institution all contracts, deeds and all
such other instruments necessary for the proper conduct of business of the
institution. However, in recurring undertakings and transactions where the action is
virtually ministerial, and the conditions and terms for which have been fixed in
accordance with the existing regulations of the institution and general laws of the
land, the specified cases may be made in his/her behalf, by the officers of the
Administration or heads of office or units of the institution, subject to such
safeguards as he/she may impose;
11. He/She shall have the general responsibility and final authority over
the enforcement of discipline on all faculty and administrative personnel in the
institution and over the maintenance of satisfactory academic standards in all its
units;
12. He/She may invite from time to time, scholars of eminence, and other persons who
have achieved distinction in some learned profession or career, to deliver a lecture
or a series thereof, he/she may authorize honoraria for such service, to be taken
from the College budgetary allocation at such rates fixed by the BOT; and,
13. He/She shall be authorized in case of brief absence, to designate a Vice-President
and/or ranking officer of the administration to act as Officer-in-Charge who shall
carry out routine management of the institution in his/her name and in accordance
to his/her instructions and the policies of the Board of Trustees.
SECTION 2. COLLEGE VICE PRESIDENTS:
2.1
Vice President for Academic and Student Affairs
The Vice-President for Academic and Student Affairs is directly responsible to the
College President for carrying out all educational policies, for implementing all
programs and projects of the institution, and for supervising curricular, instructional,
and other academic activities in the institution. In addition he/she shall perform the
following specific duties and functions:
1. Plan and implement approved plans on academic affairs and programs of the
College in coordination with other Division heads, Campus Directors, Deans and
Heads of Units;
2. Assume educational leadership in the academic council and student organization;
3. Implement College policies on academic affairs and shall promote the welfare
and development of faculty members, Campus Directors, Deans, Heads of units
and the students;
4. Manage and supervise all the Campus Directors, Deans of colleges/centers,
directors of student services/instruction and all academic units of the College;
5. Recommend to the College President policies on promotion and qualified
persons to fill positions in the different offices and units under your supervision;
6. Conduct meetings and conferences with the Campus Directors, Deans, Heads of
Units and faculty members; and
7. Perform other functions as may be delegated by the President.
The following Colleges are under the Vice President for Academic and
Student Affairs:
1. College of Education
2. College of Arts and Sciences
3. College of Computer Studies
4. College of Criminology
5. College of Office Administration
The following officers and offices are under the Vice President for
Academic and Student Affairs:
- Student Affairs and Services
1. Serve as a link between the College Administration and the student body
and/or its component organizations and associations,
2. Provide opportunities for the students’ active involvement in the affairs
of the College;
3. Oversee the activities of all student organizations and provide guidance to
students along social, cultural, educational and community leadership;
4. Coordinate all registered and recognized student organizations to   operate
under the policy and rules of the College;
5. Supervise and coordinate the functions and activities of the offices and
personnel under him/her;
6. Serves as and
7. Perform other functions as may be delegated by superiors.
Offices under the Office of the Student Affairs and Services (OSAS)
are:
1. Guidance and Counseling Office
2. Scholarship and Admissions Office
3. Student Publication
4. Student Organizations
5. Campus Ministry
6. Sports and Socio-Cultural Development
2.2
Vice President for Administration and Finance
The Vice-President for Administration and Finance is directly responsible to the
College President on all administrative operations, planning, and finance matters. In
addition, he/she shall perform the following specific duties and functions:
1. Exercise supervision over the administrative, finance and general services of the
College;
2. Exercise leadership and promote cooperation in his Division and shall see to it
that all units, sub-units in his Division function efficiently and effectively;
3. Coordinate with the VP for Academic Affairs and VP for Research, Development,
Extension and Production for the pursuit and realization of College objectives,
programs and activities;
4. Oversee the implementation of administrative issuances necessary to the
efficient and effective administration of different units under the administrative
and finance offices;
5. Supervise the preparation of periodic annual budget estimates and proposal and
other required reports;
6. Recommend measures to improve scheme on ways and means of the College;
and
7. Perform other functions as may be delegated by the College President.
The following officers and offices are under the Vice President for
Administration and Finance:
- Human Resource Management
1. Conduct a comprehensive and balanced human resource development
program designed to raise level of efficiency, effectiveness and morale of
employees;
2. Update frequently the plantilla of personnel and profile;
3. Ensure that all College employees complied with the submission of
documents pertaining to the Strategic Performance Management System;
4. Serve as secretariat to the Personnel Selection Board of the College;
5. Initiate the establishment of linkages for staff development;
6. Assess HRD needs, proposes and conduct HRD interventions;
7. Supervise the preparation and safekeeping of pertinent documents, reports
and other personnel actions;
8. Review work performance of employees to conform with existing laws, rules
and regulations and policies related to personnel matters;
9. Coordinate with the Civil Service Commission and Department of Budget and
Management regarding employees’ concerns; and,
10. Perform other functions that may be delegated by superiors.
- Accounting
1. Implement accounting rules and regulations;
2. Provide management with information on financial resources;
3. Supervise the preparation of payrolls, vouchers, bank reconciliations and
analysis of accounts;
4. Take charge of keeping records of funds and property showing receipts and
disbursements and the status of government appropriations, allotments and
savings;
5. Account and evaluate the income, operations and activities of the College;
6. Implement measures for the proper control of receipts, disposition and
utilization of funds;
7. Review journalizing and classification of accounts;
8. Prepare and submit trial balances and other required financial and
accountability reports to management and other government departments
and agencies authorized to receive such reports;
9. Review prior years' claims and certify that these are carried in the book of
accounts payable;
10. Coordinate with Commission on Audit regarding financial transactions of the
College; and
11. Perform other functions that may be delegated by superiors.
- Budget
1. Plan and participate in the preparation and consolidation of the budget of the
College;
2. Monitor the distribution, allocation and utilization of funds;
3. Coordinate with the Department of Budget and Management and other
agencies on the allocation and release of funds of the College;
4. Prepare financial and accountability reports;
5. Analyze the trends of appropriations and expenditures; and,
6. Perform other functions that may be delegated by superiors.
- Cashier
1. Supervise and account for receipts, custody and disbursement of funds;
2. Keep financial records of cash transactions for accounting purposes;
3. Sign and issue checks for payment of obligations;
4. Supervise the payment of salaries, wages and other disbursements;
5. Ensure that all cash, cash items and accountable forms are in safe custody;
6. Keep an up-to-date cashbook and records of all accountable forms;
7. Coordinate the preparation of report of collections, deposits and accountable
forms to government agencies and to other offices;
8. Deposit money to authorized depository banks;
9. Handle matters on bonding of College accountable officers; and
10. Perform other functions that may be delegated by superiors.
- General Services
1. Plan, supervise, coordinate and evaluate performance of Security and
Auxiliary units in the College;
2. Oversee minor repair of buildings, furniture and fixtures;
3. Facilitate the conduct of regular inspection;
4. Monitor the implementation of security policies and issuances on the
protection and safety of students, employees, visitors and College properties;
5. Initiate and evaluate calamity drill;
6. Supervise the maintenance and orderliness of the College grounds and
surroundings, classrooms, offices, library, laboratories, comfort rooms,
canteen and other facilities;
7. Prepare memoranda, circulars and advisories for proper guidance of
employees in the Office; and
8. Perform other functions that may be delegated by superiors.
- Health Services
1. Facilitate the conduct of providing medical services to TMC community;
2. Render health education to students, staff and faculty members;
3. Assist faculty members in any-health related activities;
4. Coordinate with the Municipal Health staff in promoting control of
communicable diseases;
5. Response to any medical emergencies;
6. Administer initial dose of medicine during emergency situation;
7. Evaluate client’s progress towards attaining better health; and
8. Collect and keep the student’s medical certificate.
- Security Services
1. Plan and implement security operations;
2. Conduct periodic security survey;
3. Prepare reports on all unusual recurrences and infractions;
4. Coordinate with all offices and departments on security matters;
5. Establish linkage with other agencies relative to security; and
6. Perform other functions as may be delegated by VP for Admin and Finance.
2.3
Vice President for Research Development, Extension and Production
The Vice-President for Research, Development, Extension, and Production is directly
responsible to the College President on matters pertaining to research, extension,
and production services, non-formal education, training, and income-generating
units and activities. In addition, he/she shall perform the following specific duties
and functions:
1. Plan and implement approved plans on research, extension and development in
coordination with the different Deans / College Department Heads;
2. Implement College policies, thrusts, programs and activities on research and
development, extension, and production;
3. Exercise management and supervision functions over personnel, faculty and
staff and promote their welfare and development;
4. Tap resources for the promotion of research, development, extension and
production;
5. Supervise and coordinate the preparation of the research journal, newsletter and
other required reports;
6. Initiate/establish linkages with government and non-government agencies on
research and extension projects and programs;
7. Review and recommend for consideration research projects which may be
funded from the research fund of the College; and
8. Perform other functions as may be delegated by the College President;
The following officers and offices are under the Vice President for
Research Development, Extension and Production:
- Head, National Service Training Program (NSTP)
All Filipino male and female are required to complete two semesters of the
National Service Training Program (NSTP), in any of the following components:
Reserve Officer Training Corps or ROTC, Civic Welfare Training Service or CWTS
and Literacy Training Service or LTS.
Students should comply with this requirement within their first two semesters.
The successful completion of the NSTP is a requisite for graduation.
The following are the task for NSTP Head / Coordinator:
1. Plan and implement approved plans on NSTP programs of the College in
coordination with the College President;
2. Submit to CHED the NSTP serial numbers application for every academic year;
3. Issue certificate of completion for NSTP training;
4. Prepare periodic consolidated reports of NSTP program and activities;
5. Oversee and monitor the implementation of the NSTP program in the
College;
6. Monitor and supervise facilitators in their community immersion activities
and program;
7. Coordinate with LGUs and other concerned agencies regarding the
implementation of the programs of the ROTC/CWTS/LTS students; and
8. Perform other functions as may be delegated by College President.
Other offices are under the Vice President for Research
Development, Extension and Production:
1. Research Office
2. Extension Office
3. Production
4. Public Affairs
5. Gender and Development
6. Intellectual Property
SECTION 3. DEANS AND PROGRAM HEADS:
3.1
The Deans of Colleges
The Deans of Colleges are expected to perform the following functions:
1. Exercise educational leadership and management of the College and of the
students to include among others: supervise periodic examinations, academic
advising of students and the handling of their academic/disciplinary problems;
supervise programs, projects and activities and enforce the admission and
graduation requirement for students;
2. Recommend and assume responsibilities for implementation of College policies,
thrusts and programs relevant to the College;
3. Designate qualified persons for Program Head in academic and related programs;
4. Exercise management and supervisory functions over instruction and other
programs of the College;
5. Spearhead, monitor and evaluate professional activities in the area of research,
production and extension of the College;
6. Facilitate the review, modification, updating and approval of course syllabi and
preparation of instructional materials;
7. Spearhead the planning, implementation and evaluation of curriculum and
faculty development program in the College;
8. Supervise personnel, evaluate their performance and promote personal welfare
and development;
9. Propose annual budgetary requirements, procurement programs for supplies and
equipment of the College;
10. Initiate the maintenance and improvement of facilities; and
11. Prepare class schedule in coordination with the College Registrar and the VP for
Academic Affairs.
3.2
The Academic Program Heads
1. Assist
the
Dean
in
the
enforcement
of
admission,
retention
and
graduation requirements for students;
2. Assist the Dean in the assignment of teaching loads and preparation of
class programs;
3. Coordinate with the Dean on matters related to curriculum and quality assurance
of the academic program;
4. Facilitate the review, updating and approval of course syllabi as well as
the preparation of instructional materials;
5. Perform other functions as may be deemed necessary by the Dean of Higher
office.
