SUPREME STUDENT GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS:

SECTION 6. THE CONDUCT OF SUPREME STUDENT:
                    GOVERNMENT  ELECTIONS:
The Office of the Student Affairs and Services exercises over-all supervision in the conduct of
Supreme Student Government Elections in Trinidad Municipal College. There are four (4)
classes of election herein to be conducted namely:
- Barangay Officers’ Elections
- Municipal Officers’ Elections
- Provincial Officers’ Elections
- National Officers’ Elections
6.1
GUIDELINES.
A. BARANGAY OFFICERS’ ELECTION
1. Every bonafide student enrolled at Trinidad Municipal College shall have the
right to run, vote and be voted upon, and be nominated as barangay officer
in his/her block by year level in each College/Department. Nominations shall

be open, meaning, anyone could nominate a student as candidate he/she
wants in an open election and that the same shall be made only once.
2. Only student with regular number of units enrolled can be nominated for
Barangay Elective positions.
3. Only duly nominated candidates for barangay elective positions can be voted
upon
the
said
barangay
elections
in
each
block/section
by
College/Department.
4. In each block by College/Department, the barangay elective positions to be
filled – up shall be:
- Barangay Captain
- Barangay Secretary
- Barangay Treasurer
- Four (4) Barangay Councilors
5. In case the office of the barangay captain is vacant whatever reasons/s the 1st
Barangay Councilor shall become the Barangay Captain serving only for the
unexpired portion of the term of office of his/her predecessor who caused
the said vacancy.
6. If the vacancy exists in the office of the Barangay Secretary Barangay
Treasurer and Barangay Councilors, the Municipal Mayor of the year level
wherein the said vacancies exists or in case of his/her inability, the Provincial
Governor shall appoint any barangay officer who will fill up the said
vacancies.
7. The election of the barangay officials shall be scheduled by the TMC Electoral
Commission and to be held simultaneously under the supervision of the
respective department heads one week after the start of the regular classes
on every semester. The results of which shall be submitted to the TMC
Electoral Commission by the respective Department Heads.
B. MUNICIPAL OFFICERS’ ELECTION
1. Every bonafide student enrolled at Trinidad Municipal College shall have the
right to run, vote and be voted upon, and be nominated as municipal officer
in his/her year level by College/Department. Nominations shall be open,
meaning, anyone could nominate a student as candidate he/she wants in an
open election and that the same shall be made only once.
2. Only student with regular number of units enrolled can be nominated for
Municipal Elective positions.
3. Only duly nominated candidates for municipal elective positions can be voted
upon the said municipal elections in each year level by College/Department.
4. In each year level by College/Department, the municipal elective positions to
be filled – up shall be:
- Municipal Mayor
- Municipal Vice Mayor
- Municipal Secretary
- Municipal Treasurer
- Municipal Accountant
- Four (4) Municipal Councilors
5. In case the office of the municipal mayor is vacant whatever reasons/s the
Municipal Vice – Mayor shall become the municipal mayor serving only for
the unexpired portion of the term of office of his/her predecessor who
caused the said vacancy.
6. If the vacancy exists in the office of the municipal vice – mayor, municipal
treasurer, and municipal accountant, the Provincial Governor of the
Department wherein the said vacancies exists or in case of his/her inability,
the National President of the Supreme Student Government (SSG) shall
appoint any municipal officer who will fill up the said vacancies.
7. If vacancies exist in both offices of the press relation officers or either of
them herein mentioned, the same shall be filled-up by appointment of the
municipal mayor concerned to complete the political composition.
8. The election of the municipal officials shall be scheduled by the Office of the
Student Affairs and Services and to be held simultaneously under the
supervision of the respective department heads one week after the start of
the regular classes on every first semester. The results of which shall be
submitted to the OSA by the respective Department Heads.
C. PROVINCIAL OFFICERS’ ELECTION
1. Every bonafide student enrolled at Trinidad Municipal College shall have the
right to file a candidacy and be voted upon as provincial officer in his/her
College/Department provided he/she meets the following electoral
qualifications:
a. Has a residency of at least two consecutive semesters with regular
number of units enrolled or as prescribed units to be enrolled per
semester in their respective curriculum.
b. Has no grade (NG), Withdrawn Subjects (WS), Dropped Subjects (DR)
and/or failing grades.
c. Has possess and demonstrated good moral standing at TMC and in the
community.
2. In the provincial officer’s elections the following elective positions shall be
filled – up:
- Provincial Governor
- Provincial Vice Governor
- Provincial Secretary
- Provincial Treasurer
- Provincial Accountant
- Four (4) Provincial Board Members
3. In case the vacancy in the office of the Provincial Governor for whatever
reason/s the Provincial Vice – Governor shall become the Provincial Governor
serving only the unexpired portion of the term of office of his/her
predecessor who caused the said vacancy.
4. If the vacancy exist in the office of the Provincial Vice – Governor, Provincial
Secretary, Provincial Treasurer and Provincial Accountant, The National
President of the Supreme Student Government (SSG) shall appoint any
Provincial Officer who will fill up the said vacancies only the unexpired
portion of the term of office of his/her predecessor who caused the said
vacancy.
5. If the vacancies exist in both offices of the Provincial Press Relation Officers
(PROs) or either of them herein above- mentioned, the Provincial Governor
of the Department/College where the said vacancies exist shall appoint any
provincial press relation officers to fill up the said vacancy.
The election of provincial officials shall be scheduled and supervise by the
Student Affairs and Services Office (SASO) through TMC Electoral Commission
and to be held simultaneously with the National Officer’s election in every first
semester.
D. NATIONAL OFFICERS’ ELECTIONS
1. Every bonafide student enrolled at Trinidad Municipal College shall have the
right to file a candidacy and be voted upon, as national officer of Supreme
Student Government in TMC provided he/she meets the following electoral
qualifications:
a. Has a residency of at least four consecutive semesters with regular
number of units enrolled or as prescribed units to be enrolled per
semester in their respective curriculum.
b. Has no grade (NG), Withdrawn Subjects (WS), Dropped Subjects (DR)
and/or failing grades.
c. Has possessed and demonstrated good moral standing at TMC and in
the community.
2. In the elections for national officers, the following elective positions shall be
filled – up:
- National President
- National Vice – President
- National Secretary
- National Treasurer
- National Accountant
- Two National Representatives per Department
- Six (6) Senators
3. The term of office of all Supreme Student Government (SSG) Officers elected
from the national level down to the municipal level shall be for one (1)
school year which shall consist of two (2) semesters and one (1) summer
which shall cease upon the assumption of the newly elected SSG Officers.
4. All national representatives elected in the national elections representing the
respective departments of Trinidad Municipal College shall compose the
legislative branch of the Supreme Student Government of TMC. Collectively,
they shall be known as “The Students’ Congress” the function of which is to
enact campus ordinances and resolutions for the betterment of TMC
students subject of course, to review and final approval of the Board of
Trustees of TMC, should it find said Ordinances and Resolutions to be legal
and not contrary to morals, public health, order and safety.
5. The Senate President shall be the presiding officer of the Students’ Congress
herein created.
6. If for whatever reasons, the Office of the National President becomes vacant,
the National Vice – President shall become the National President serving
only the unexpired portion of his/her predecessor’s term of office.
7. In case of vacancy in the office of the National Vice – President, the Students’
Congress shall recommend three (3) from its members to the National
President, who shall choose any one of them to serve the unexpired portion
only of the predecessor’s term of office who caused the said vacancy.
8. If the office of the Senate President is vacant, the National President or in
case of his/her inability, the National Vice – President shall appoint the
successor’s from any Senator.
9. If the Office of the National Secretary or National Treasurer or National
Accountant of the Supreme Student Government (SSG) are declared vacant,
the School Administrator or in his/her absence the Assistant School
Administrator shall have the power to appoint students who will fill up the
said vacancies to avoid disruption/interruption in the rendition of SSG’s
services to the students.
10. The elections of SSG National and Provincial Officials shall be automated or
computerized voting system that means the voters will simply click on the
icon of their preferred candidates in the designated polling places in the
presence of the watchers and Board of Election Inspectors (BEIs). Candidates
for National positions shall be elected at large by the whole TMC population,
while candidates for provincial elections shall elected at large by constituents
of their respective college department.
11. The election of the SSG national and provincial officials shall be scheduled
and supervised by the Student Affairs Office (OSA) through the TMC Electoral
Commission (TMC EC) and to be held simultaneously every third (3) week of
the month of August. The result of which will be posted in the respective
bulletin boards.
6.2
COMMON PROVISIONS.
1. Candidates for National President position shall be screened and evaluated first
by the TMC Electoral Commission which composed of the following: (1) Chairman
of the TMC Electoral Commission (OSA Head), (2) School Administrator, (3) Five
(5) College Department Heads prior to filing of Certificate of Candidacy.
2. Candidates from the provincial level to the national level should file their
certificates of candidacy to the TMC Electoral Commission’s Chairperson (OSA
Head) one (1) week prior to the date of election. Otherwise, failure to file their
certificates of candidacy within the prescribed period shall automatically
disqualify such candidate and will not be voted upon.
3. All candidates from the national level down to the provincial level shall represent
their respective campus political parties and must be accredited/recognized by
the OSA sitting as TMC’s Electoral Commission.
4. Prior to the Supreme Student Government (SSG) elections, all campus political
parties participating in the said elections must coordinate and submit first the
following documents for accreditation, re-accreditation and or recognition of the
said parties:
a. Letter of Intent
b. Application for Accreditation of New Campus Political Party
c. Application for Re-accreditation of Existing Campus Political Party
d. Complete List of Candidates from National Elective to Provincial Elective
Positions
5. No campus political party shall be allowed to participate in the elections unless it
is accredited/recognized as such by the TMC Electoral Commission.
6. Votes for any candidates belonging to an unrecognized/unaccredited campus
political party and to an unrecognized/unaccredited independent candidate shall
be null and void and shall not be counted.
7. In case of tie votes in the elections for municipal officers, provincial officers or
national officers, the same shall be resolved by tossing – up a coin for the
purpose to be conducted by TMC Electoral Commission (OSA Head).
8. All Supreme Student Government Officers elected from the national level down
to the municipal level shall be proclaimed as such formally by the Student Affairs
Office sitting concurrently as Trinidad Municipal College (TMC) Electoral
Commissions.
9. The TMC Electoral Commission has the sole power to promulgate rules and
regulations, policies, guidelines and other issuances relating to the mode of
elections of the Supreme Student Government.
