STUDENT CONDUCT, CODE OF CONDUCT, SANCTIONS, INFRACTIONS AND CONSEQUENCES:

The election of officers of the Parent Guardian Assembly shall be done
after the conduct of the Students Orientation Program that is
scheduled within the first month of the start of for the first semester.
5.4.2 FACULTY ASSOCIATION. Per CHED Memorandum Order No. 11 and
42, series of 2016, there shall organized Faculty Association of TMC,
which shall have the following objectives:
a. To establish a genuine association that shall assert and uphold the
interests and working conditions of the faculty members of TMC;
b. Formulate and recommend programs for Faculty Development;
and
c. Shall recommend a representative to set as ex-officio member of
Board of Trustees.
5.4.3 TMC ALUMNI AFFAIRS OFFICE. Per CHED Memorandum Order No. 32,
series of 2006 as amended by CMO 42, series of 2016, there shall be
organized Alumni Association of TMC, which shall have the following
objectives:
a. As the liaison between the college and its alumni, the Alumni
Affairs Office regularly communicates with the different alumni
chapters and actively participates in the different activities to
strengthen love and loyalty for the alma mater.
5.4.4 BUSINESS SECTOR. Per CHED Memorandum Order No. 11 and 42,
series of 2016, there shall representation from the duly accredited the
Sangguniang Bayan Industry / Business Sector to TMC Board of
Trustees.
5.5
GENERAL CONDUCT OF STUDENTS. The College shall maintain good school discipline
inside the school campus as well as outside the school premises when students are
engaged in activities authorized by the school. Towards this end, the Office of
Student Affairs (OSA) supervises students’ behavior and investigates reported cases
of misbehavior to ascertain all facts and to forward his findings and recommendation
to the Board of Trustees for review and appropriate action.
A. SANCTIONS. Disciplinary sanctions may be imposed to those who violate the
provisions of students’ manual in particular and the code/rule of conduct for
students in general.
The following sanctions shall be commensurate with the nature and gravity of the
offense after due investigation, to wit:
1. Reprimand (written or oral).This is for minor violations of the College rules.
School officials and academic personnel
2.
shall have the right to reprimand and even to impose appropriate and
reasonable measures in case of minor offenses or infractions of good
discipline committed in their presence. However, no cruel or physically
harmful punishment shall be imposed or applied against any student.
3. Disciplinary Probation. There shall be a period of trial, ordinarily imposed by
the OSA for repeated violation of College rules or for serious offenses
requiring a stronger action than reprimand. Probation shall be for such
period and subject to such terms and conditions as may deem wise to
impose under the circumstances. This probationary period may allow the
erring student to rehabilitate or correct his misbehavior. It may be lifted after
a certain period and/or when the punitive conditions stipulated in the
conditions are changed upon the petition of the student addressed to OSA
after he/she shall have shown sufficient evidence of rehabilitation.
4. Suspension, Exclusion and Expulsion. These stronger disciplinary sanctions
may be applied upon the recommendation of the OSA/committee to the BOT
when the offense is so serious and circumstances so warrant. None of these
administrative actions shall be imposed upon any student, except for cause
as defined in this Students’ Manual.
a. SUSPENSION. This is a penalty in which the BOT is allowed to deny or
deprive an erring student of attendance in classes for a period not
exceeding twenty percent (20%) of the prescribed school days for the
school year or term. The decision of the BOT on every case involving the
penalty of suspension shall not exceed 20% of the prescribed number of
school days. A student under investigation of a case involving the penalty
of suspension may be preventively SUSPENDED from entering the school
premises if the evidence of guilt is strong and the BOT is morally
convinced that the continued stay of the student during the period of
investigation constitute a distraction to the normal operations of the
school or poses a risk or danger to the life of persons and property of the
school.
b. EXCLUSION. The student is excluded or dropped from the school roll for
being undesirable and transfer credentials shall immediately be issued.
b.1 A summary investigation shall be conducted by the OSA/committee
whose findings / recommendation for exclusion has to be forwarded
to the BOT for review and appropriate action after summary
investigation duly observing the minimum requirements of due
process as provided for by CMO No. 40, series of 2008.
b.2 The decision of the BOT on every case involving the penalty of
exclusion from the school roll does not need prior approval by the
CHED. The decision together with all the pertinent papers shall be
filed in the OSA, in order to afford CHED the opportunity to review
the case in the event an appeal is taken by the party concerned
within the period allowed herein.
c. EXPULSION. It is an extreme penalty on an erring student consisting of
his/her immediate expulsion from TMC after due notice and investigation
duly observing the due process. The penalty may be imposed for acts of
offenses constituting grave misconduct, dishonesty, hazing, carrying
deadly weapon, immorality, selling and/or possession of prohibited drugs
such as marijuana, drug dependency, drunkenness, hooliganism
(hoodlum), vandalism, and other serious school offenses such as
assaulting a student or school personnel, instigating or leading illegal
strikes or similar concerted activities resulting in the stoppage of classes,
preventing or threatening any student or school personnel from entering
the school premises or attending classes or discharging his/her duties,
forging or tampering with school records
forms, and securing or using forged school records, forms and
documents.
The decision of the BOT on expulsion shall take effect upon the approval
of the CHED. A summary of investigation together with all pertinent
papers shall be forwarded to CHED Regional Office within ten (10) days
from termination of the case.
B. CODE OF STUDENT CONDUCT:
1. MORALITY AND BEHAVIOR
a.
For All Students
1. Students are expected to conduct themselves in a dignified
manner in accordance with the basic Filipino values, standards of
morality and the school ethical standards. They shall at all times
condemn immoral and unethical acts.
2. Students shall observe cleanliness and decency. They shall at all
times be neat, clean and decent in their dresses and personal
bearing.
3. Student shall respect the dignity and the name of TMC and LGU in
general.
They shall refrain from committing disgraceful acts that may
embarrass or dishonor the name of TMC and the local government
unit.
4. Students shall respect fellow students, faculty members and
administrative employees. A faculty member or school authority
may ask for the ID of any student who displays disrespectful
behavior.
5. Students are duty bound to protect the College premises and
property. They shall at all times refrain from littering, spitting,
urinating in an undesignated places and lewd acts inside school
campus and premises.
b.
For Male Students
1. No male students shall be allowed to wear earrings and piercings
within the school premises.
2. All male students are expected to be gentlemen and sportsmen in
their friendship with fellow students and non-students.
3. All male students are expected to value the chastity, dignity and
sanctity of life, marriage, family and fatherhood.
c.
For Female Students
1. All female students are expected to be self- restrained and
modest in their friendship with fellow students and non-students.
2. All female students are expected to value the chastity, dignity and
sanctity of life, marriage, family and motherhood.
2. DRUNKENESS AND DRUG ABUSE ARE PHYSICALLY AND MORALLY
DISASTROUS.
Students shall avoid from:
a. Bringing, drinking and consuming of any liquor and intoxicating beverages
or any prohibited drugs inside the campus and premises at all times.
b. Entering the school campus and premises under the influence of liquor
or any kind of prohibited drugs at all times.
c. Using, possessing and/or distributing illegal drugs inside the campus and
premises at all times.
3. CARRYING DEADLY WEAPONS IS A CRIMINAL ACT THAT STUDENTS SHALL
NEVER TRY TO DO.
4. DISHONESTY IN ANY FORM IS IMMORAL, THUS STUDENTS SHALL REFRAIN
FROM:
a. Cheating in the classes during quizzes and examinations.
b. Lending and borrowing school uniform.
c. Lending one’s ID to another and willful possession of two or more IDs.
d. Plagiarism in connection with academic works, IDs, admission slips, and
other official receipts and records.
e. Forgery, tampering and stealing records, paper alteration or misuse of
College documents, records and credentials.
5. ASSAULTING, THREATENING, COERCING, AGITATING OR INTIMIDATING ANY
PERSON ARE CRIMES AGAINST PERSON, SUCH AS:
a. Writing, publishing false information about the TMC and its authority.
b. Defaming (Oral Defamation or Libel) a fellow TMC student or school
authority i.e. BOT, College President, Dean/Department Heads, faculty
and staff.
c. Disrespecting, refusing or disregarding arrest, summon and notice of
personal appearance before any person in authority (i.e. administrative
employees, faculty members, Security Guard).
d. Coercing, intimidating someone just to do something against his/her will.
e. Threatening the life of student or school authority.
f. Assaulting student or school authority.
6. IMMORAL ACTS AND OTHER SEXUAL-RELATED CASES SHALL BE REGARDED
BY STUDENTS AS ABOMINABLE.
7. PUNISHABLE OFFENSES OF PUBLIC OR CAMPUS DISTURBANCES, SUCH AS:
a. Disrupting/disturbing authorized practices and performances, symposia,
forums, etc.
b. Disrupting classes by loitering and creating noise or any disturbances in
the corridors, stairways and immediate vicinities of classroom during class
periods.
c. Misconduct inside the classroom such as shouting, whistling, raucous and
unrestrained laughter, loud talking and insulting a teacher.
d. Fighting between gangsters.
e. Throwing any object on a gathering
f. Loud and disturbing arguments
g. Violence and physical injury
h. Harassment within school premises
i. Causing panic or great confusion
8. GAMBLING IN ANY FORM IS ABSOLUTELY PROHIBITED WITHIN THE SCHOOL
CAMPUS AND PREMISES AT ALL TIMES.
9. SMOKING IS STRICTLY NOT ALLOWED INSIDE SCHOOL CAMPUS AND
PREMISES AT ALL TIMES.
10. DESTROYING SCHOOL PROPERTIES / FACILITIES AND VANDALISM. Students
shall refrain from the following:
a. Making markings, writings on walls, floors, desks, chairs, tables or any
furniture in the classrooms, laboratories, offices and rest rooms.
b. Imprudent use of school property resulting to damage
c. Using property/facility without proper permit
d. Charging of electronic gadgets and devices is strictly prohibited at all
times.
e. Violating the rules governing the use of properties and facilities
The Head of Student Affairs and Services Office in collaboration with the
School Guidance Counselor may proceed summarily against any student in
the following cases:
1. Misconduct committed in the presence of a faculty member or any official
of the college within the jurisdiction of the college or in the course of
school function sponsored by the college.
2. Deliberate disruption of the academic function or a school activity that
tends to create disorder, tumult, or serious disturbance not necessarily
connected with any academic function or college activity.
a. Brawl within the college premises or outside the college during academic
function or college activity.
b. Direct assault or inflicting physical injuries on any person, inside or
outside the campus during an academic function or college activity.
c. Other student’s misconducts as may be defined in this Student Manual.
Procedures for the Settlement of Complaints/Grievances Between and Among
Students
1. The respondent student shall be furnished a copy of the written complaint
against him/her and to appear before the Head of Student Affairs, ten (10)
days from receipt of the written complaint for him/her to present his/her
answer. After receipt of the answer, the OSA will conduct a summary hearing
within fifteen (15) days. After which, a decision will have to be rendered by
the OSA. The OSA shall take into account in imposing penalty corresponding
to the offense committed.
2. Should the respondent student refuse without any cause to appear before
the Head of Student Affairs, shall issue another summon up to a maximum of
three (3) summonses. Despite the receipt by the respondent student, and still
refuse to appear without due cause despite of the three summonses, the
OSA shall take into account in imposing penalty corresponding to the offense
committed.
3. Any decision taken should be in writing, stating the ground for which the
disciplinary action is taken. The written findings and decision of the OSA for
no entry, reprimand and disciplinary probation shall be final and executory.
4. However, if the decision of OSA is to recommend for suspension, exclusion
and expulsion of the respondent student, said decision shall be forwarded to
the BOT for review and appropriate action subject to the provisions on
SUSPENSION, EXCLUSION and EXPULSION found in this Manual.
C. INFRACTIONS AND CONSEQUENCES:
 Category of Offenses
Students are expected to exercise freedom with responsibility and maturity in
the process of self-development.
The ultimate objective of the enforcement of school rules and regulations is the
internalization of values behind the rules. Thus, the goal of all discipline is self-
discipline which is essential to character formation. This entails the ability to
distinguish between acts that shall promote their well-being as persons and
those that will subvert this. The following are acts considered inimical to the
dignity of the members of the Trinidad Municipal College community;
Classification of Offenses and their Corresponding  Sanctions
I. Minor Offenses
Minor Offenses are light infractions of rules and regulations that warrant an
action ranging from no entry, verbal reprimand, to disciplinary probation to
be accomplished within the semester of commission of offense.
A.
Nature of violation:
1. Willful disruption of an academic function or a school activity
which tends to cause disorder or disturbance
2. Disrupting or disturbing classes and/or School functions by making
excessive noise, boisterous laughter, and the like inside and
outside the classroom
3. Littering
4. Loitering or staying in school beyond curfew hours and during
non-school days without proper authorization.
5. Unauthorized removal/tampering of official signages, notices or
posters.
6. Use of mobile phones and other electronic gadgets and devices
during classes and official examinations.
PENALTY:
First offense
:
Written Reprimand
Second offense
:
No Entry
II. Major Offenses
Major offenses are serious infractions of the rules and regulations, a
maximum penalty of suspension, exclusion and expulsion.
A.
Nature of violations:
1. Acts of defiance against TMC persons-in- authority.
2. Violations against RA 10175 otherwise known as Cybercrime
Prevention Act of 2012.
3. Bringing lewd, pornographic and other offensive materials and/or
downloading and viewing the same inside the school campus and
premises.
4. Discriminating against a person based on his/her socio-economic
status, ethnic group, religion, and physical disabilities.
5. Attacking, or degrading others’ religious belief and practices
6. Use of offensive or abusive language or non- verbal acts (i.e.,
flashing a dirty finger, catcalling, etc.)
7. Bullying in any form and manners.
8. Commission for a third time of minor offense of any nature within
a semester.
9. Conduct unbecoming of a TMC Student and/or student leader
(i.e. behaving in a manner that will bring shame or dishonor to
the School).
10. Dissemination of malicious information and sending prank
messages through telephone, electronic, text messages and social
media.
11. Failure to submit to random drug testing when required.
12. Falsifying, distorting and/or false excuses for absences in class and
other school sanctioned activities.
13. Instigating and/or engaging in activities resulting in moral damage
to persons (e.g. gossiping or rumor mongering), posting and
sharing of malicious and degrading comments/blogs, etc. on the
social media.
14. Misrepresentation and usurpation of authority.
15. Unauthorized fund raising without the approval of TMC Board of
Trustees.
16. Cheating in any form during major official examinations.
17. Gross and deliberate acts of discourtesy such as banging of doors
or hurling invectives towards any member of the TMC community
18. Disrespect for the prescribed school uniform and the good name
of the TMC through improper decorum.
19. Participation in activities that diminish the respect of human
dignity.
20. Dishonesty involving transactions between students and other
members of the community.
21. Illicit relationship between students, faculty and staff.
22. Final conviction in any court of law for subversion, insurgency, and
terrorism.
23. Physical assault upon any member of the TMC Community (BOT,
students, faculty, Administrator, non-teaching staff including
security guards and visitors).
24. Bribing to any school authorities for whatever purpose for
personal gain.
25. Extortion.
26. Hacking, tampering, deletion of computer files and programs
acquired by the school resulting in serious damage to the school.
27. Hazing.
28. Organizing or being involved in group which allows violence.
29. Prostitution or pimping.
30. Submission of fake or spurious document as an academic
requirement.
31. Theft / stealing
or
attempt
thereof
and
conspiracy in the commission of offenses.
32. Bullying,
violations
against RA
10627 otherwise known
as Anti-Bullying Act of 2013.
33. Sexual Harassment.
Policy Declaration on Sexual Harassment
In affirmation of the declaration of the policy set forth in Section 2 of
Republic Act No. 7877, TMC shall guarantee full respect for human
rights and uphold the dignity of workers, employees, applicants for
employment, students including those undergoing on- the-job
training, instruction or education.
As a premier educational institution, TMC shall establish and maintain
a moral, intellectual and healthy work environment in which the
productivity and creativity of its workforce are nurtured, free from
any and all kinds of sexual harassment. Towards this end, TMC
commits itself to establishing and maintaining a “sexual harassment-
free” workplace and holds its faculty, students and employees to the
highest degree of moral standards.
