ARTICLE IV STUDENT SUPPORT SERVICES (GUIDANCE, HEALTH, ADMISSION OFFICE AND STUDENT AFFAIRS):

ARTICLE Iv
Service SUPPORT UNITS
SECTION 1. GUIDANCE OFFICE:
This office has designed programs to give assistance to students in adjusting to physical,
personal, vocational, social and emotional problems and to guide them in making decisions,
solving problems, and planning their future.
The following services are offered:
1. During the process of enrollment the Guidance Office shall coordinate in
collaboration with the Admission Office.
2. Orientation – helping the students adjusts to the school environment and acquires
the feeling of belongingness.
3. Individual Inventory – keeping records of students to help the Guidance Counselor in
predicting possible problems of students and for the students to acquire knowledge
of themselves.
4. Counseling – assisting the students in understanding their problems by giving those
words of inspiration and enlightenment for the possible solutions to their problems.
5. Referral – giving specialized assistance by referring the individual to another person
who can help solve the problem.
6. Information – providing the dissemination of current information directly affecting
the students.
7. Vocational and Career Guidance – assisting the students in the choice of their
profession, career and vocation in life.
8. Job placement – helping the students in securing appropriate employment
opportunities by exposing them to job interviews and seminars on how to land a job.
9. Evaluation – determining the effectiveness of the school activities that involve the
students.
10. Values Formation and Retreat – for college graduating students.
SECTION 2. THE ELECTRONIC DATA PROCESSING (EDP):
                       OFFICE:
This office develops, installs, and maintains all academic and administrative computer-based
information systems. It guides users in formulating requirements and advises on
alternatives and implications of new or revised computer systems information
systems/application technology. It oversees and coordinates activities such as programming,
network administration, system design, application development, user development, and
user support and computer operations.
SECTION 3. HEALTH SERVICES:
Since the school is owned, operated and managed by the LGU of Trinidad, the Rural Health
Unit (RHU) of the municipality shall extend its services to the students of TMC. Bona fide
students can avail RHU medical and dental services during clinic hours from 8:00-12:00 NN
and 1:00-5:00 PM every Friday of the week, and during emergency cases.
TMC has also designated a school physician and school dentist under contract of service
whose clinic hours are scheduled every third Wednesday of the month from 8:00 am to 5:00
pm.
TMC, in compliance to CMO No 32, series of 2006 has likewise hired a Nurse I with regular
position stationed at the School Clinic.
The services are the following:
1. Free medical consultation;
2. If available, initial dosage of medicine is given to students after consultation;
3. Free dressing for minor wounds;
4. Provide free dental check-up;
5. Issuance of medical and dental certificates; and
6. Medical kits and medicine may be provided for campus and off- campus activities
upon the request of the Dean and approved by the College President.
SECTION 4. ADMISSION OFFICE:
This Office is in charge of the assessment of all freshmen and transferees who wants to be
accepted in Trinidad Municipal College. The Admission Officer, who is in-charge of the
Admission Office, shall be responsible of the following:
1. Prepare guidelines related to the Admission / Entrance Exam;
2. Prepare the schedule of filing for admission examination applicants;
3. Accept admission examination application from applicants;
4. Verify applicants if eligible to take the admission examination;
5. Prepare schedule of examination and venue;
6. Conduct written admission examination;
7. Check the answer sheet of examinees;
8. Prepare list of passer and post the same in the bulletin board and in the Trinidad
Municipal College’s Official Facebook Page;
9. Prepare a report for the List of Examinees to be submitted to CHED-UniFAST; and
10. Update student admission examination info at the TMC System.
SECTION 5. OFFICE OF THE STUDENT AFFAIRS AND:
                       SERVICES:
FUNCTIONS AND/OR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Generally, the OSA is responsible to manage the student affairs, development and welfare
programs of Trinidad Municipal College students.
As per CHED Memorandum Order No. 21 Series of 2006, TMC’s student affairs services are
composed of (1) student welfare programs and services and (2) student development
services.
I.
STUDENT WELFARE PROGRAMS AND SERVICES:
A. Spearhead in coordination with the school administration, faculty members,
department heads, the students’ government, the different and existing
students’ groups in school, the adviser of the student council as well as the
guidance office in the conduct of orientation programs for new/continuing
students.
B. Subject to guidelines prescribed for the purpose, it shall assists in
implementing
scholarship
programs
and
financial
assistance
to
deserving/qualified students in coordination with the Local Government Unit
of Trinidad, Bohol and the school’s scholarship coordinator.
C. Recommend/Endorse students who need appropriate intervention to the
guidance office.
D. In close coordination with the local government unit of Trinidad, Bohol and
the school administration ensure a safe and secure environment for students
and their belongings inside the TMC school campus.
E. Taking into consideration the mandate of the students’ manual and as found
out by the Board of Trustees appropriate disciplinary measures can be
imposed on erring students for violation of, misconduct and/or infractions of
school rules, regulations and policies after due process has been duly
observed.
F. Special treatment shall be accorded to pregnant women, senior citizens and
students with disabilities.
G. Work hand in hand with the Registrar’s Office, Guidance Office, the Supreme
Student Government Adviser, the different Department Heads and the school
administration concerning requirements and procedures for admission and
retention of students in TMC.
H. Validate/Revalidate the students’ identification cards every semester for
formal recognition/registration and record purposes.
I. The Head of Student Affairs Office may at his own initiative (motu propio), for
the sole purpose of resolving any disciplinary-related case/s brought before
him either in writing or verbally by any individual/s as complainant/s against
any TMC bona fide student/s, may initially investigate the complaint by
forming a committee and after due summary investigation will submit his
findings and recommendations to the TMC Board of Trustees through the
Chairman whose decision/s on the case/s is/are final and executory. In its
summary investigation, the minimum requirements of due process have to
be observed as required for by CMO No. 40, series of 2008.
II.
STUDENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS AND SERVICES:
A. Process applications for accreditation/re-accreditation and registration of
school related student organization/s and submit said applications to the
Board of Trustees together with all the requirements imposed by the Student
Affairs Office for its final consideration on the said applications.
B. Coordinate with the municipal and barangay government units of Trinidad,
Bohol, its residents, the school administration, faculty members and staff, the
Supreme Student Government, guidance office and the studentry regarding
social and community involvement of the school/students in general and for
this purpose assist in formulating appropriate programs therein.
C. Primarily responsible in the processing of its application for students’
insurance before a reputable insurer/insurance company.
D. TMC recognizes the right of students to have their own Supreme Student
Government, leadership training programs, student publication, sports
development programs, school- related organizations and cultural programs.
TMC, pursuant to RA 8049 otherwise known as ANTI-HAZING LAW strictly
prohibits HAZING or any other form of physical violence during initiation rites of
fraternities, sororities and similar associations as defined and penalized under RA
8049 whether conducted inside or outside TMC premises or between TMC
students and non TMC Students. TMC Students and leaders of organizations /
fraternities / sororities conducting hazing either TMC Students or non TMC
Students, after hearing, shall be expelled from TMC with the approval of the
Board of Trustees without prejudice to the filing of criminal actions against the
erring leaders/students and all those involved. Separate investigation will be
conducted by the Board of Trustees on the faculty member who acted as adviser
of the erring student organization.
It must be emphasized that RA. 8049 imposes THE MAXIMUM PENALTY OF LIFE
IMPRISONMENT on those who are found guilty beyond reasonable doubt by the
court.
The following are the general objectives of OSAS:
1. To initiate and coordinate specific programs that offer student’s personal
and social development.
2. To provide the students with opportunities for active participation in school
activities and in the community, and
3. To promote the student’s general code of conduct.
5.1
AREAS OF CONCERN.
1. Student Development. These concerns all trainings/programs designed at
generating good student leaders who actively involves in self-realization and in
helping fellow students in realizing their potentials for a wholesome campus
atmosphere.
2. Student Activities. This involves a responsible coordination and supervision of
student’s activities concerning the operations of all recognized student
organizations.
3. Student Discipline. These concerns with the right order of things. Rules and
regulations are set for external discipline to build/modify a desired attitude,
values and behavior relevant to an environment conducive for a harmonious
dealing within the College and in the community.
5.2
PERMIT OF ACTIVITY. Rules and procedures governing the activities held inside
and outside the campus are the following:
1. A department or a registered school-related organization that wishes to secure a
permit of activity requiring use of facilities and equipment must fill-up the
appropriate Form in quadruplicate copies at OSA.
2. The Form shall be signed by the requesting department or school-related
organization concerned. Falsified purpose in the application shall be dealt with
accordingly based on the provisions of the TMC Students’ Manual in particular
and on the code of conduct in general.
3. If the application is approved, one copy shall be submitted to OSA, another one
to the head of the Maintenance Department, the third copy to the Property
Custodian, and the last copy for the department/school-related organization.
5.3
SCHOOL-RELATED STUDENTS’ ORGANIZATIONS. Bona fide students may form and
join any school-related organization not contrary to law and to the rules of TMC. Said
student organization must serve as an avenue towards development of student’s
talents and skills, leadership, intellect, physique, and spiritual life, and the activities
must be classified as co-curricular or extra-curricular. These school-related
organizations must submit the requirements to the OSA for processing and
documentation who, in turn after due evaluation, shall forward the application
together with his recommendation to the Board of Trustees for the final action. The
Adviser of the school-related organization must be a full time Instructor of the TMC.
5.4
RULES AND REGULATIONS.
A. EDUCATIONAL TOURS AND FIELD TRIPS:
In view on the latest pronouncement by CHED per Memorandum Order 63 series
of 2017 on the lifting of educational tour, TMC shall no longer allows any
educational tour and field trips. In lieu thereof, they shall be given alternative
school activities which provide similar acquisition of knowledge of required
practical competencies and to achieve other learning objectives such as but not
limited to seminars, workshops, summits, jail visitations and conferences.
B. SOLICITATION OF FUNDS, PRIZES AND SPONSORS:
Only duly recognized organizations may be authorized by the TMC Board of
Trustees to raise funds, solicit prizes and canvass sponsors. All applications for
fund-raising project/activity shall be outlined in details to include its purpose of
doing so. Permission is granted as long as the money to be raised is intended for
worthy cause.
C. PUBLICITY ON CAMPUS:
Only duly recognized organizations are given the privilege to make posting of
notices and announcement and to distribute reading materials. OSA clearance
must be obtained first before posting, provided it shall be in one legal-size bond
paper posted in a designated posting area. Posters must be removed immediately
after the termination of the activity sponsored by the organization concerned.
5.4.1
PARENTS’/GUARDIANS’ ASSEMBLY. Upon realizing the importance of
parents’ involvement in carrying out student activities, Parent
Assembly maybe organized. It may voluntarily provide guidance and
support to the OSA, in undertaking school activities.
The Parents’/Guardians’ Assembly shall be governed by officers,
elected annually by at least the majority of the parents of all the
students currently enrolled at TMC, consisting of (1) President, (2)
Vice President, (3) Secretary, (4) Treasurer, (5) Auditor and (6)
Liaison Officers.
