ARTICLE III SUPPORT UNITS:

ARTICLE IiI
SUPPORT UNITS:
Generally, TMC adheres to the “NO NOON-BREAK POLICY’ as prescribed in RA 9485 “Anti-
Red Tape Act” as amended by RA 11032 “Ease of Doing Business and Efficient Government
Service Delivery”.
SECTION 1. REGISTRAR’S OFFICE
This office is primarily concerned in the maintenance, safekeeping and dispensing of
students’ academic records and other pertinent documents. Regular office hours are from
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. during Mondays to Fridays except non-working holidays.
The services rendered by the school Registrar to the students are the following:
1. Validate credentials and enrollment requirements.
2. Process cross enrollment applications.
3. Process subjects load and overload.
4. Process transcript of records.
5. Process application for graduation.
6. Process alien students’ application.
7. Issue transfer credentials, diplomas, certifications and other students records.
8. Certify student scholastic records.
9. Evaluate curriculum to graduating students.
10. Advice legal process in the correction of names.
SECTION 2. LIBRARY:
The College Library’s facilities and resources will be available to all members of the TMC
community to meet the needs of all patrons/borrowers by providing intellectual materials
for user’s intellectual development.
The college library provides:
1.
Provide acquisition on basic collection of well-selected    by the Library
Committee relevant books to support the core needs of the general curricula;
2. Provide journals, e-journals, magazines and newspapers; and
3. Additional more specialized collections as necessary to meet the requirements of
the various courses of study and major programs offered by the school.
TMC likewise adopts a continuing and forward-looking acquisition and development for the
improvement of its facilities and resources. For this purpose, TMC incorporates the 5-Year
Library Development Plan duly approved by the Sangguniang Bayan per SB Resolution No.
261 dated November 12, 2018.
Official library hours are from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. during Mondays to Fridays thereby
observing the LGU’s existing “NO NOON BREAK POLICY”. The library will be opened on
Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. to accommodate the needs of the students. There
will be shifting of library personnel to be assigned for this purpose.
2.1
RULES AND REGULATIONS. As a place conducive to independent study and silent
reading, users/students must observe the following:
a. Proper behavior and an atmosphere of quietness must be maintained in the
library at all times.
b. Silence must be observed strictly. Conversation, loud laughter and other
unnecessary noise are not allowed.
c. Smoking is absolutely prohibited inside the library and within its premises.
d. Eating, drinking, sleeping, socializing, or doing other activities aside from reading,
studying, and searching are not allowed.
e. Keep the books, equipment and other library facilities in good condition and
proper order. Tables and chairs should be returned to their proper places upon
leaving the library so as not to obstruct the movement of others.
f. Keep the library clean. Do not litter the tables or floor with waste papers and
other scraps. Use the wastebaskets provided for the purpose.
g. Handle books and other materials with care. They are intended to serve great
number of users.
h. Patrons/Borrowers should not write on, mark, underline, tear or any way
damage, mutilate, and/or destroy books, newspaper, magazines, pamphlets, or
other resources belonging to the library.
i. Return newspaper and magazines to their proper places after reading them.
j. After using a book the same should be placed to the cart marked ” Please Return
Books Here” to avoid books from being misplaced.
2.2
RULES ON CIRCULATION:
A. Circulation Policy
1. General Reading. All fiction, non-fiction, paper backs and other general
reading materials may be borrowed for a period of seven (7) days including
holidays, Saturdays, Sundays. These books are renewable for another seven
days unless the same book has been reserved by and for another patron.
2. References. Books of General Knowledge, Encyclopedias, Dictionaries and
other general references cannot be borrowed by patrons. These shall be kept
permanently in the library.
3. Magazines, Periodicals, Newspapers. Single and bound issues of current and
past issues of magazines, periodicals and newspapers are found in the
Periodical Section of the library. These are arranged alphabetically by title.
Current issue of all subscriptions may be borrowed from the librarian, but
these materials are to be read only in the Periodical Section of the College
Library.
4. Filipiniana. All Filipiniana reference books cannot be taken out of the library.
However, fiction and non-fiction may be borrowed for a period of seven days.
5. (Children’s Books. These books cannot be brought out from the library.
Children must read these books in the Children Section of the library.) To be
omitted
6. Teacher’s References. Teacher’s references cannot be checked out by
(regular patron) students. However, teachers may reserve the books for their
personal use.
B. Reserved Section
Students may borrow and read one book at a time from the reserved book
inside the library only.
2.3
ACCOUNTABILITY OF BOOKS:
A. Lost and Damaged Books Borrowed Overnight
1. If the library book is lost or damaged, the borrower must replace with a new
one, bearing the same title, edition and author.
2. Library users/borrowers that violate any of the rules and regulations of the
library (based on Trinidad Public Library Information Guide) shall be denied of
their library rights and privileges.
3. Disciplinary action shall be enforced by the Librarian.
SECTION 3. LABORATORIES:
The TMC has general science, computer, speech, simulation laboratory office, moot court,
crime scene room and crime / forensic laboratories, for all courses requiring the use of said
laboratories. TMC has also machine shops for technology/technical courses. These
laboratories are equipped with sufficient facilities and equipment. “SAFETY FIRST” shall not
be a slogan only, but shall also be the guiding principle for the students for each laboratory
manual.
SECTION 4. PROPERTY CUSTODIAN’S OFFICE
The General Services Office (GSO) is the property custodian who is in-charge of facilitating
requests for reservations of the school equipment and facilities upon recommendation of
the GSO and duly approved by the Municipal Mayor. Any person, class or department who
wishes to use the school equipment / facilities shall secure the Facility Equipment Request
Form (FERF) from the General Services Office.
However, to those laboratories with designated Lab Technician shall have the    coordination
with the Dean or Head and GSO Officer.
SECTION 5. MAINTENANCE SERVICES:
The General Services Office is responsible for maintaining cleanliness (mowering of school
grounds and the like) and carry-out minor repairs of the damaged equipment, facilities and
furniture and fixtures. It is also in-charge in physical arrangements and logistics during
campus activities and programs by providing the necessary equipment to be used as
approved by the Mayor. Meanwhile, for repairs, maintenance and rehabilitation of
structural parts of the school buildings shall be the responsibility of the Office of the
Municipal Engineer.
SECTION 6. TRINIDAD CULTURAL CENTER:
Any students, faculty and/or department who may use the cultural center and audio visual
room for student-related activities, such as, but not limited to sports/games, physical
instructions, cultural presentations, seminars and workshops conducted by the student,
organizations, classes, departments within the campus duly approved and consistent with
the goals of the college shall secure a form from SAO first with recommendation by the
Deans or Department Head and with the approval of the College Administrator as reference
for the release of Facility Equipment Request Form (FERF) from the General Services Office
and subject for approval from the Mayor’s Office.
Proponent/s of the aforementioned activities who may use of the LED Wall, sound systems
and its accessories shall secure first the FERF and shall pay the corresponding charges
thereof.
SECTION 7. FACILITIES AND OTHER EQUIPMENT:
Under CHED Memorandum Order No. 39, series of 2021, HEIs are recommended to have
available facilities and equipment. However, in the absence of facilities specified below, an
HEI may execute a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with the Local Government Units
(LGU) and other nearby facilities:
7.1
Department Offices
7.2
Faculty Lounge
7.3
Conference Room
7.4
Gymnasium for the physical activities of the students such as Defensive Tactics or PE
Room for Criminology and other sports activities of students with facilities and
equipment provided.
7.5
Student Lounge – this place intended for the services of the student.
7.6
Counselling Room – for counselling purposes.
7.7
Chapel – for spiritual growth
7.8
Canteen
7.9
Dormitories
7.10    Library Reading Area
7.11   Maintenance and Storage Services
7.12    Swimming Pool
7.13  Track and Field Oval
7.14
Sports and Fitness Equipment
7.15
Firing Range
7.16
Audio – Visual Room
7.17
School Clinic
