TUITION AND OTHER SCHOOL FEES, WITHDRAWAL REFUNDS AND SCHOLARSHIPS:

SECTION 11. POLICIES ON PAYMENT OF TUITION AND:
                         OTHER SCHOOL FEES:
11.1
UniFAST Scholars payments based-on billing process through CHED.
11.2
Non-Unifast Scholars
11.2.1 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS. Payments may be made in installment basis,
provided a registration fee is paid during enrollment. Twenty-five percent
(25%) of the total   amount due for the given term is to be paid every major
examination and all balances are to be paid during final examination.
However, if a student will pay in full his/her total dues/obligations for the
semester upon enrollment, he/she will be given a discount of ten (10)
percent of his/her total tuition fees.
11.2.2 OUTSTANDING BALANCE. Students with outstanding balance must settle
their obligations before the enrollment of the following semester.

11.2.3 PAYMENT IN CASE OF WITHDRAWAL. A student who withdraws his/her
enrollment from the course shall be charged as follows:
- Within First Week of Class periods – 10% of the total obligations due for
the term.
- Before Prelim Examination – 25% of the total amount due for the term.
- After Prelim Exam but before Midterm Examination – 50% of the total
amount due for the term.
- After Midterm Exam up to the end of the term – 100% of the total
amount due for the term.
A refund of the total amount paid shall be made if a student withdraws
during the enrolment period before the opening of the classes EXCEPT the
registration and entrance fees.
11.3
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM – The TMC grants academic and non-academic privileges
for tuition fee discounts as incentives to deserving students. Application Forms for
these privileges are available at the designated Scholarship Coordinator. A student
can only enjoy one (1) privilege, of his/her preference. The scholarship program is
renewable every semester, except those covered under paragraph 10.3.1. Letter A of
this Section.
11.3.1 Academic Scholarship
A. Senior High School Honor Students
1. With Highest Honor – 100% discount on tuition fees for two (2)
consecutive regular semesters.
2. With High Honor – 50% discount on tuition fees for two (2)
consecutive regular semesters
B. College Academic Scholars (2nd Yr., 3rd Yr., 4th Yr.)
1. Academic qualifications with corresponding discount on tuition fees
for this scholarship are the following:
a. General weighted average of not less than 1.2 with no grades less
than 2.0 & NG = 100% discount per semester.
b. General weighted average not less than
c. with no grades less than 2.0 & NG = 75% discount per semester.
d. General weighted average not less than
e. with no grades less than 2.0 & NG = 50% discount per semester.
11.3.2 Non-academic Scholarship Grants. These grants are discretionary in terms of
qualifications and procedures set by the TMC Board of Trustees and signed
by the Local Chief Executive.
Non-academic Scholarship Program is listed in the privilege form. The
students who enjoy these grants must have no failing grades. For the
continuance of their privileges, they must maintain a grade average of 2.5,
and the Office where the privileged student is connected shall submit a
recommendation letter to the Scholarship Coordinator.
11.3.3 All applications for Academic, Non-Academic and Tertiary Education Subsidy
(TES)-Listahanan Grantees / Scholarship must be filed with the designated
TES Focal Person on or before the scheduled period in every semester / year.
Non- filing within the scheduled period will result in their non-inclusion from
Tertiary Education Subsidy (TES)-Listahanan Grantees/ Scholarship as
determined by the UNIFAST Governing Board.
11.3.4 Scholarship
Grants from Other Institutions / Agencies.
TMC admits also scholars funded by other Institutions/Agencies
strictly
subject to the following requirements:
a. Other LGUs which have scholars enrolled at TMC must notify the School
Registrar of TMC who will signify TMC’s willingness to enter into MOA
with said LGUs containing the terms and conditions governing modes of
payments and refunds and other arrangement.
b. Subsidies from National Government agencies extended to students
enrolled at TMC must be downloaded before the final examination in
every semester otherwise the concerned scholars must pay their own
fees and obligations subject to refund after receipt of the subsidy and
upon filing of the proper application for refund and its subsequent
approval.
11.3.5 Refund to the students in excess of their total school obligations received
from public and private institutions
SB Resolution No. 031, Series of 2016, adopting and approving the
implementing guidelines recommended by the Board of Trustees of Trinidad
Municipal College per Board Resolution No. 09 series of 2016 in giving refund
to the students in excess of their total school obligations received from public
and private institutions in a form of financial assistance granted to the
students enrolled at Trinidad Municipal College starting school year 2015-
2016.
APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS:
The student applicants for refund in all other financial benefits, grants and
aid, they shall directly apply to the Office of Chairman of the Board through
the School Administrator with the following requirements:
1. Letter request by the student applicant addressed to the Chairman of the
Board, through the School Administrator;
2. Photocopy of the student identification card, duly certified by the School
Registrar; and
3. Printed copy of Payment Overview.
RULES TO BE OBSERVED BY THE GRANTEES:
a. Students and grantees shall observe the following rules:
b. Shall establish and enroll at least two (2) semesters or a one (1) year
residency in Trinidad Municipal College;
c. Must avail only one scholarship or financial assistance program;
d. Must be in a good moral character; and
e. Must have no unpaid debts due to third persons such as unpaid debts due
to owners of boarding houses, stores and others.
MODES OF REFUND:
The release of refund of financial benefits shall be as follows:
FIRST (1st)
YEAR:
STUDENT:
SECOND:
(2ND) YEAR
STUDENT:
THIRD (3RD):
YEAR:
STUDENT:
FOURTH:
(4TH) YEAR
STUDENT:
SCHE-
DULE OF:
REFUND:
Only 30% of
the total
excess /
refundable
amount
Only 50%
of the total
excess /
refundable
amount
Only 70%
of the total
excess /
refundable
amount
100% of
the total
excess /
refundable
amount
In the
month of
March of
every
year
Students / grantees dropping out from the school or have already stopped
schooling can process or get their refunds upon proper evaluation of the
Members of the Board of Trustees and to be approved by the Chairman or
the School Administrator.
